GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
JANUARY 22ND MEETING AT THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION UNDER GOD
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE ARE ALL BUT OUR CLARK.
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
AND MEMBER THIS HERE CUSTOMER
HARRISON APSA COUNTERMOVEMENT
HERE WE'RE WATZMAN HERE AS AS
UP HERE RAGAZZI EVERYONE HERE
WE ARE TAYLOR HERE BECAUSE
WE'RE ABSENT FROM OUR ACKMANN
ABSENT CUSTOMER BRIGS HERE
ELSEWHERE CORNEAU HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM MADE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS MY CUSTOMER
HORNELL DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA ON FAVOR POSED THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED
OF COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FOR OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
NO MAYOR.
IT'S NOW TIME FOR OUR BI
MONTHLY UPDATE FROM DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
>> MISS THOMPSON
, THANK MARCUS
.
THANK YOU, MA'AM.
TAYLOR COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE
HAPPY TO BE HERE TONIGHT.
I THOUGHT I WOULD USE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TONIGHT TO TALK TO
YOU ABOUT THE DAY'S UPCOMING
PROPOSED PARKING RATE INCREASES
.
>> SO I'M GOING TO DO JUST SORT
OF A BRIEF REVIEW OF SOME
PARKING SYSTEM FUNDAMENTALS TO
SOME HIGH LEVEL DISCUSSION ON A
PARKING RATE INCREASES AND THEN
PROVIDE SHARE INFORMATION ON
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE PUBLIC TO
BE ABLE TO GIVE FEEDBACK TO THE
SO WE'LL START WITH SOME
PARKING SYSTEM FUNDAMENTAL I
KNOW YOU'RE AWARE OF SOME
OF THESE THINGS BUT I THOUGHT
IT'S WORTH REMINDING EVERYONE
THE DENHA MANAGES, OPERATES AND
MAINTAINS PUBLIC PARKING
THROUGH AN AGREEMENT WITH THE
CITY PARKING FACILITIES, OUR
CITY ASSETS.
THE D.A. DOES NOT OWN ANY
OF THE PARKING FACILITIES PARK
THE PARKING SYSTEM IS A
SELF-SUSTAINING SYSTEM.
PARKING FEES MUST COVER PARKING
EXPENDITURES.
PARKING REVENUES ALSO SUPPORT
OTHER TRANSPORTATION RELATED
INITIATIVES.
SO THINGS LIKE THE GO PASS TO
GET DOWNTOWN PROGRAM BUT
PARKING REVENUES DO NOT SUPPORT
ARE THE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
THAT THE DDA TAKES ON IN THE
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY THAT IS ALL
FUNDED THROUGH OUR SYSTEM.
THE CITY RECEIVES TWENTY
PERCENT OF GROSS PARKING
REVENUE IN FY TWENTY THREE THAT
WAS THREE POINT NINE MILLION
DOLLARS.
WE'RE TRACKING PROBABLY A
LITTLE OVER FOUR MILLION
DOLLARS FOR EVERY TWENTY FOUR
THE CITY MANAGES ENFORCEMENT
AND RECEIVES THE REVENUE FOR
ENFORCEMENT AND THE CITY ALSO
MANAGES AND RECEIVES THE
REVENUE FOR THE RESIDENTIAL
PART OF THE PROGRAM.
SO WE CAN'T TALK ABOUT PARKING
RATE INCREASES WITHOUT
MENTIONING THE IMPACTS THAT THE
PANDEMIC HAD ON THE PARKING
SYSTEM.
AND I KNOW YOU'VE HEARD THIS
BEFORE BUT IT BEARS REPEATING
WE HAD SIGNIFICANT REVENUE LOSS
THROUGHOUT THE PANDEMIC.
WE'RE NOW OPERATING AT ABOUT
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE
REVENUE THAT WAS RECEIVED PRE
PANDEMIC OUR EXPENDITURES WE
DEFERRED ABOUT TEN TO TWELVE
MILLION DOLLARS OF EXPENDITURES
DURING THAT THREE YEAR PERIOD
OF UNCERTAINTY.
WE SAW A GREAT SHIFT IN
DOWNTOWN ACTIVITY AND WE ALSO
SAW ACCELERATED TRENDS AT OUR
CURBSIDE BECAUSE OF ALL
OF THESE CHANGES THAT OCCURRED.
IT WAS REALLY CRITICAL THAT WE
DID A COMPREHENSIVE POST COVID
ANALYSIS OF THE PARKING SYSTEM.
SO THAT ENTAILED OUR TWENTY
YEAR MAINTENANCE PLAN.
THIS IS A PLANNING AND
BUDGETING TOOL.
WE HAVE ENGINEERS COME IN TO
ALL OF OUR PARKING FACILITIES.
THEY LOOK AT EVERYTHING TOP TO
BOTTOM AND THEY BASICALLY
PRIORITIZE ALL OF OUR
MAINTENANCE AND RESTORATION
WORK OUT TWENTY YEARS AND THIS
WAS PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT THIS
YEAR BECAUSE IT DID COVER ALL
OF THOSE DEFERRED EXPENSES.
SO WE NEED TO FACTOR THAT INTO
OUR PLANNING.
WE ALSO UNDERTOOK OUR UNDERWENT
A CURBSIDE MANAGEMENT STUDY.
WE'RE EXPECTING A DELIVERABLE
ON THAT PROBABLY WITHIN THE
NEXT MONTH AND THEN OF COURSE
THE PARKING RATE STUDY WHICH
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TONIGHT
.
SO OUR FIRST STEP WITH THE
PARKING RATE STUDY WAS TO
IDENTIFY THE PRIORITIES OF THE
PARKING SYSTEM.
I'M NOT GOING TO TALK ABOUT ALL
OF THESE TONIGHT BUT I DO WANT
TO POINT OUT TOO THAT WE'RE
JUST SIMPLY NOT NEGOTIABLE.
WE HAVE TO OPERATE A
FINANCIALLY SOUND PARKING
SYSTEM AND AGAIN THOSE PARKING
FEES MUST COVER OUR
EXPENDITURES AND WE ARE
OBLIGATED TO MAINTAIN THESE
VERY IMPORTANT CITY ASSETS.
SO THE PROPOSED PARKING RATES,
THE BOARD WILL BE VOTING ON A
THREE YEAR SLATE OF RATE
INCREASES IN MARCH.
I'M GOING TO JUST POINT OUT A
FEW OF THE RATES HERE TONIGHT
AND I'LL DRAW YOUR ATTENTION TO
THAT FIRST COLUMN WITH THE
PURPLE HIGHLIGHTS.
THOSE ARE THE CURRENT RATES THE
NEXT COLUMN WOULD BE OUR FIRST
SLATE OF RATE INCREASES AND
THAT'S HIGHLIGHTED IN YELLOW.
SO TO START ON WITH OUR HOURLY
RATES SO OUR HOURLY RATES IN
OUR PARKING STRUCTURES ARE
RIGHT NOW A DOLLAR TWENTY AN
HOUR THEY WOULD BE RAISED TO A
DOLLAR FIFTY AN HOUR.
THAT RATE WAS LAST INCREASED IN
TWENTY TWELVE HOUR HOUR ON
STREET METER RATES ARE
CURRENTLY AT TWO DOLLARS AND
TWENTY CENTS AN HOUR THEY WOULD
BE INCREASED TO TWO DOLLARS AND
FORTY CENTS AN HOUR.
THAT RATE WAS LAST INCREASED IN
JULY TWENTY TWENTY TWO ON THE
PERMIT SIDE OUR STANDARD
MONTHLY PERMIT WILL BE
INCREASED BY TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS SO WE'RE GOING FROM TWO
HUNDRED TWO TWENTY FIVE AND
AGAIN THAT RATE WAS LAST
INCREASED AT THE SAME TIME ON
STREET RATES WERE IN JULY
OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO THE
LIMITED OVERNIGHT PERMIT WHICH
IS CURRENTLY AT THIRTY DOLLARS
WILL JUST BE RAISED FIVE
DOLLARS TO THIRTY FIVE.
THAT RATE ACTUALLY HAS NEVER
BEEN INCREASED SINCE ITS
INCEPTION IN TWENTY SIX WE ALSO
ARE MAKING SOME OPERATIONAL
CHANGES ON THE FLAT RATE SIDE
SO RIGHT NOW WE OPERATE FLAT
RATES AT AND ASHLEY AND LIBERTY
SQUARE WE'RE SHIFTING THAT FLAT
RATE TO LIBRARY SO THE LIBRARY
LANE FACILITY WILL HAVE A FIVE
DOLLAR FLAT RATE FROM THREE
P.M. TO SIX A.M. MONDAY THROUGH
FRIDAY AND ALL DAY SATURDAY.
AND THE REASON FOR THAT SHIFT
IS BECAUSE THAT LIBRARY LANE
STRUCTURE IS CENTRALLY LOCATED
AND IT HAS A LOT OF CAPACITY.
ANOTHER OPERATIONAL CHANGE
WE'RE MAKING THE FIRST IN
WASHINGTON STREET STRUCTURE
CURRENTLY ONLY HAS HOURLY
PARKING AVAILABLE AFTER THREE
P.M. WE ARE ELIMINATING THAT
RESTRICTION AND HOURLY PARKING
WILL BE AVAILABLE AT FIRST IN
WASHINGTON TWENTY FOUR SEVEN.
SO THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
MAJOR CHANGES.
>> SO TIMELINE AND FEEDBACK.
SO HERE WE ARE IN JANUARY WE
ARE BROADLY SHARING THESE RATE
INCREASES WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
.
WE HAVE POSTERS UP IN ALL
OF THE PARKING GARAGES WITH A
QR CODE THAT LEADS YOU TO ALL
OF THIS INFORMATION IN FEBRUARY
THE DAY WILL BE HOLDING A
PUBLIC HEARING THAT'S FEBRUARY
7TH IN MARCH THE BOARD WILL
VOTE ON THIS THREE YEAR SLATE
OF RATE INCREASES AND IF
APPROVED WE WILL IMPLEMENT
THESE NEW RATES ON MAY 1ST.
SO OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE PUBLIC
TO PROVIDE THE DAY WITH
FEEDBACK THAT PUBLIC HEARING
AGAIN WILL TAKE PLACE FEBRUARY
7TH.
THAT'S AT NOON AT THE DENHA
OFFICE WHICH IS AT ONE FIFTY S
FIFTH.
YOU DON'T NEED TO SIGN UP TO
SPEAK AT THAT MEETING.
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC CAN JUST
SHOW UP HOWEVER YOU DO NOT HAVE
TO COME TO THAT MEETING TO
PROVIDE US WITH FEEDBACK.
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC CAN EMAIL
THE DAY CALL TODAY ALL FEEDBACK
WILL BE SHARED WITH THE BOARD
AND ALL OF THIS INFORMATION OUR
CONTACT INFORMATION AND THE
FULL RATE TABLE A WRAP UP
OF THE PARKING STUDY AND
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY.
SO A WHOLE HOST OF INFORMATION
ON THE WEBSITE TO DAY OR READ
ON THE HOME PAGE THERE IS THE
PUBLIC HEARING ANNOUNCEMENT AND
IT LINKS YOU TO ALL OF THIS
INFORMATION AND THAT IS ALL I
HAVE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH
.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVED TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN THE
COMMUNITY THAT MATTERS
MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK AT
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS.
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE TIME
CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS OUR REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME IS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED PLEASE INCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
LOUIS VáSQUEZ BREEDINGS IN OUR
CITY COUNCIL.
MR. LEWIS AS PRESIDENT OF FIRST
WARD IN ANN ARBOR.
THIS IS MY FORTIETH YEAR BEING
IN ANN ARBOR AND I WANTED TO
ADDRESS COUNCIL TODAY ABOUT
DEVELOPMENT IN DOWNTOWN AND ALL
AROUND THE CITY IN GENERAL BUT
TO FOCUS SPECIFICALLY ON THE
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED POSSIBLE
PROJECT, THE PARKING LOT IN
PERPETUITY PARTY HAS TRIED
RECENTLY TO DEMONIZE MR. HONI
IN BASICALLY HOW DARE MR. HONI
DO WHAT WE ASKED OF HIM RIGHT.
MR. HE WAS DOING HIS JOB BY
ENTERTAINING PROPOSALS WHICH
COUNCIL PUT FORWARD MONTHS AGO
.
SO I'M GOING TO INVOKE LITTLE
WINSTON CHURCHILL HERE.
SO DESPITE ALL OF THE NIMBY
PROPAGANDA AND MISINFORMATION,
DISINFORMATION AND DISTORTIONS
WE PROGRESSIVES WILL NEVER
SURRENDER.
WE WILL NEVER GIVE IN.
WE WILL FIGHT THEM AT THE
BALLOT BOX.
WE WILL FIGHT THE NELSONS AND
THE PAGANS AND THE HAMMERS AND
THE ONES WE WILL FIGHT THE
GREEDY LANDLORDS AND THEIR
GANGS.
WE WILL FIND THE STEELWORKS AND
THE ALMOND TROUT AND THE KONGS
.
WE WILL FIGHT THEM ON THE
PARKING LOT.
WE WILL FIGHT FOR THE DUPLEXES,
THE TRI PLEXUS AND THE QUAD'S.
WE WILL FIGHT THEM FROM THE
STREETS OF TOWN TO THE HEIGHTS
OF WATER HILL.
WE WILL FIGHT CITY HIGH RISE
DENSITY PROTECTED BIKE LANES
AND LESS EMPHASIS ON CARS.
WE WILL FIGHT THEM ON EVERY
SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORM BE IT
NEXT FACEBOOK, REDDIT OR
TWITTER X.
WE WILL THANK THEM WHEN THEY
COME OUT OF THEIR HOUSES IN
CANADIAN HOTELS AND PROCEED TO
LECTURE US ON ZONING AND
HOUSING POLICY.
WE WILL FRIVOLOUS LAWSUITS
WHICH DELAY MY HOUSING BEING
BUILT.
WE WILL BUILD LAWS AND THE
LEADERS AND ALL THEIR ILK.
FINALLY I JUST THANK YOU FOR
TRYING TO PASS THAT RESOLUTION
TO GET THE HAMAS TERRORIST
HOSTAGES RELEASED AND ALSO TO
TELL YOU THAT IN THE PAST
INDIANS AND ISRAELIS AND ALL
THE VICTIMS OF HAMAS TERROR AND
I THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ELLEN
HABOUR
AND THE NEW PERMANENT
DIRECTOR NOVEMBER 6TH, 2008 I
THE CITY CHARTER THE DIRECTOR
OF THE CENTER OF THE CITY LAND
SHOULD BE RETAINED.
THE COVERAGE AND DEVELOPMENT
THE URBAN CENTRAL PARTNERSHIP
CENTERED COMMONS PART OF THIS
LIBRARY PARKING LOT OF THE
UNDERGROUND PARKING STRUCTURE
IS MANAGED BY THE DENHA COME
ON, SIT DOWN AND JOIN THE
DISCUSSION.
THIS IS A PUBLIC PLAN AND IT IS
A PARK IN THE PARK.
THE TO SHARE THE STORAGE SPACE
THE THREE PURPOSE PUBLIC PLAN
THE CITY ADMINISTRATION HAS
REFUSED IN TWO PARKING SPACES
TO BE FENCED IN INFORMATION BY
THE COLLEGE AT THE CENTER
OF CITY DEVELOPMENT PLANS THE
CITY COUNCIL RECOGNIZED THE
ENTIRE COMMUNITY AS AN
EMPOWERED CITIZEN BY THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE CITY OF DOES
NOT RECOGNIZE ITS OPPORTUNITIES
COMMITTEE AND HAS TAKEN ACTION
DIRECTLY COUNTER TO THE WORK
OF THE COMMITTEE, THE PUBLIC
AND WHATEVER DEPOSIT THE
PARKING LOT OF THE SERVICE
PARKING AFTER NOVEMBER 19, 2018
AS THE CITY COUNCIL FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT THE COMMENTS ABOUT
IT NOW TO PERHAPS A MILLION
DOLLARS THOUGH NOT ALL NOT AT
ALL COPY AND THEREFORE RETURN
TO THE ACTUAL REFUSED AT ANY
POINT EXCEPT ALLOWING US TO
MAKE A GRANT.
THE CITY REJECTED ANY
COOPERATION WITH THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
THE PEOPLE THE GOVERNMENT SAYS
FORGET THAT THERE IS A PART
OF THE ASYLUM FIVE YEARS ON THE
CITY COUNCIL SHOULD
THEY GIVE
THAT INSTRUCTION TO THE COLLEGE
DEVELOPMENT AID A PROPOSAL TO
SUPPORT IT FOR THE CONFERENCE
AND WHAT WAS DONATED BY MEMBERS
OF THE SEQUESTER?
BUT I NEVER UNDERSTAND FOR
PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT HAVE BEEN
ONE YEAR.
SO THIS IS THE A HELD DEMOCRACY
WHEN WHEN I SPOKE ON BEHALF
OF THE CENTER OF THE CITY THE
CEASEFIRE RESOLUTION THAT YOU
ASKED ME I SAID THIS IS A LONG
WAR AGAINST THE COMMON PEOPLE,
WELL ORGANIZED PEOPLE IN BERLIN
.
WE SHOULD END THIS.
THIS IS JUST THE FIRST
RETALIATION NO, THEY GET
ANGRIER WITH THEIR COOPERATION
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LO
,
ALEX LO AND ZOOM.
GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN FROM
FANWOOD AVENUE.
I'D LIKE TO TALK TO THIS
EVENING ABOUT ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY ONE CATHERINE STREET AND
IT REPRESENTS WHAT'S HAPPENING
RIGHT NOW IN THAT DISTRICT.
WHAT'S A ATTENDING TO THE
ACTIVITY IN THE LOCATION
OF PONDS AND CORNELL
BLACKSMITHS AT LEAST AS FAR
BACK AS EIGHT FEET IN 1917 THE
ANN ARBOR DAIRY OVER HERE AND
THAT NOW THAT WAS A BEAUTIFUL
LIBRARY HAVE PHOTOS OF IT AND I
WISH I RECOMMEND THAT EVERYONE
GO AND LOOK THEM UP ON THE
BEAUTIFUL BRICK WALLS, STYLISH
CAR BOTH HOLDING UP THE EASE
AND LOVELY ARCHED WINDOWS ON
THE GROUND.
SO NATURALLY A 19TH THREE NOT
AFTER THE NOT AFTER THE
CONTROVERSIAL DEMOLITION
ACCORDING TO 1877 PHOTO THE
SAFETY DECIDED TO PURCHASE THIS
BUILDING AND DEMOLISH WHY?
WELL, WEALTHY PEOPLE WANT TO BE
ABLE TO LIVE FAR LESS, GO TO
TOWN ON FUTURE AND DRIVE INTO
THE CITY RATHER THAN TAKING THE
BUS LIKE THE COMING ON IT TO
PLEASE THE WEALTHY FEW AND
ABOVE BOTH THE BUILDING FOR
WHAT IS THAT POINT?
WHAT WAS THE COST
OF CONSTRUCTION SEVERAL AND
RAZED TO THE GROUND PUTTING
FIFTY SIX PARKING SPACES SIXTY
YEARS LATER TO THE VERY END
OF THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVED THIS IF IT'S SAID TO
FINALLY USE GARDEN CITY BY
BUILDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THAT ALONG WITH ADEQUATE
HOUSING WHERE IN IS NOBODY
COULD LIVE THERE AND THE
SURROUNDING BUILDINGS WERE ONLY
AFFORDABLE VERY, VERY RICH IN
THAT CITY.
NOW WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A SPACE
I THINK TERRYTOWN WHERE PEOPLE
WHO AREN'T JUST ROLLING IN
MONEY CAN LIVE AGAIN.
MY ONLY HOPE IS THAT THE NEXT
DOWNTOWN WILL BE AT THE CLIENT
LAUNCH THE LIBRARY LIKE THE
WYLYE OR SOMETHING.
WHERE ELSE COULD BE BIGGER AND
HOUSED MORE PEOPLE AND MOST
IMPORTANTLY WOULD BE A THANK
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
.
SO HI THERE TAYLOR.
I'M THRILLED TO BE HERE.
I'M THE DIRECTOR OF THE
WASHTENAW WCC ENTREPRENEURSHIP
CENTER AND I'M HERE TO TALK TO
YOU ABOUT TWO NEW EFFORTS WE
HAVE WITH THE IDEA
OF ENCOURAGING ENGAGEMENT IN
OUR LOCAL COMMUNITY.
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO DON'T KNOW
ABOUT THE ENTREPRENEURSHIP
CENTER WCC, WE HAVE ABOUT TWO
HUNDRED CLIENTS WE WORK WITH
EVERY YEAR.
ABOUT FIVE HUNDRED OF THOSE ARE
NEW AND THEY ARE FROM THE LOCAL
COMMUNITY YPSILANTI AND HARBOR
.
MOST OF THEM ARE SORT OF SPLIT
BETWEEN PEOPLE OF COLOR AND WE
HAVE A NUMBER AND WE'RE SPLIT
BETWEENEN AND WOMEN AS WELL.
WE REALLY FOCUS ON
ENTREPRENEURS THAT ARE
BEGINNING STARTING THEIR
BUSINESS AT THE IDEATION STAGE
AND ARE WORKING ON
NON-TECHNICAL SORT OF COMMUNITY
BASED BUSINESSES.
IT'S AN INCREDIBLE CENTER AND
AN INCREDIBLE JOB AND WE HAVE
TWO REALLY NEW EXCITING THINGS
I'D LIKE TO TALK WITH YOU ABOUT
TODAY JUST SO YOU'RE AWARE
OF IT AND YOU KNOW WHAT'S GOING
ON IN IT CAN BE USEFUL TO YOU
AND YOUR CONSTITUENTS.
THE FIRST THING IS WE HAVE A
PITCH CONTEST EVERY YEAR.
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR
ABOUT FIVE YEARS THIS YEAR
WE'RE EXPANDING IT.
WE HAVE OUR TRADITIONAL SORT
OF START CATEGORY WHICH IS JUST
IDEATION STAGE.
WE HAVE OUR BUILD CATEGORY
WHICH IS PEOPLE THAT HAVE
STARTED A BUSINESS.
WE HAVE OUR STUDENT PITCH AND
WE HAVE OUR SOCIAL IMPACT PITCH
THERE IS OUR FOUR EXISTING
CATEGORIES BUT WE'RE ADDING
THREE NEW CATEGORIES.
ONE IS FOR ENTREPRENEURS WHO
ARE STARTING BUSINESSES IN THE
ARTS.
THE SECOND IS FOR ENTREPRENEURS
THAT ARE STARTING SKILLED
TRADES BUSINESSES AND THE THIRD
IS FOR RETURNING CITIZENS.
AND I AM THRILLED TO HAVE OUR
EXPERT IN RESIDENCE BEROCCA
EDDIE SANDERS HERE WITH ME WHO
IS ACTUALLY IN OUR FIRST
INCUBATOR COHORT AND HAS
STARTED A BUSINESS CALLED
ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING AND
REHABILITATION SERVICES.
IT'S A CONSULTANCY AND BARACK
HIMSELF IS A JUVENILE LIFER
THAT WAS PAROLED AT ONCE,
GRADUATED FROM THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN WITH AN MSW AND NOW
WE WE ARE THRILLED TO HAVE BE
WORKING WITH HIM AS HE STARTS
HIS BUSINESS.
ALL OF THE FINALISTS IN THIS
PITCH CONTEST WILL BE PUT INTO
ACCEPTED INTO OUR INCUBATOR AND
OUR INCUBATOR IS BRAND NEW.
WE HAVE A PILOT THAT IS GOING
ON OF WHICH BEROCCA IS ONE
OF THE ONE OF THE ENTREPRENEURS
AND THE FIRST COHORT THE
INCUBATOR IS A TWO YEAR PROGRAM
FOR PEOPLE WHO WANT TO START A
BUSINESS.
WE WILL HAVE A COHORT STARTING
IN MARCH.
WE HAVE A COHORT STARTING IN
JUNE AND WE'LL HAVE A
COHORT STARTING IN THE FALL.
WITHIN THOSE TWO YEARS
ENTREPRENEURS WILL BE TRAINED
IN ALL ASPECTS
OF ENTREPRENEURIAL JOURNEY FROM
BUSINESS PLANNING ALL THE WAY
TO ALL THE WAY TO THE END AND
WE'RE REALLY GLAD THAT I WAS WE
WERE GIVEN THIS OPPORTUNITY TO
TALK TODAY.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEFF HAYNER
.
I'M LOATHE TO TURN MY BACK ON
YOUR PRIME SUPPORTER HERE BUT I
CAN SEE YOU IN THE MIRROR SO
HOPEFULLY IT'LL BE OK.
I WOULD HAVE MADE THESE
COMMENTS LAST WEEK BUT I WANT
TO MAKE SOME SPACE FOR THE
FOLKS WHO REALLY HAD A LOT TO
SAY ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
THE MIDDLE EAST HERE AND I'M
GLAD THEY DID AND I'M GLAD YOU
LISTENED TO THEM AND I ALSO
WOULD HAVE ATTENDED THIS I'D
I'M HERE TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
LOCAL OFFICERS COMPENSATION
BOARD MEETING THAT HAPPENED
RECENTLY I WOULD HAVE ATTENDED
BUT WAS IMPROPERLY NOTICED
ALONG WITH THE PARKS THE PARK
COMMISSION MEETINGS FOR LIKE A
YEAR NOW DOWN A BIT.
BUT THANKS TO OUR OUR STEADFAST
INTEREST THAT'S BEEN FIXED.
SO THE LOCAL OFFICE
COMPENSATION BOARD FOR FOLKS
WHO DON'T KNOW DECIDES ON WHAT
CITY COUNCIL AND THE MAYOR EARN
AND THEY HAVE ASKED TO GIVE
THEM A RAISE AND THREE REASONS
THEY GAVE WERE INFLATION.
THEIR HOURS WORKED AND SO THAT
THIS BODY CAN BETTER ATTRACT
FOLKS WHO CAN'T AFFORD TO SPEND
X AMOUNT OF HOURS A WEEK OR DAY
OR MONTH WORKING HERE.
AND WHEN THAT'S OUT LIKE NOBODY
POOR IS EVER GOING TO BE ON
COUNCIL AGAIN.
THERE'S NO WAY WE CAN FIGHT THE
PAC MONEY AND THE DARK MONEY
AND THE OTHER THINGS THAT GO ON
HERE BE THAT AS IT MAY THE
HOURS WORK THAT THEY USED WERE
WAS A SURVEY THAT THEY DID WHEN
I WAS ON COUNCIL BECAUSE I
WATCHED THE MEETING ON
TELEVISION LIVE AND THEY SAID
THOSE HOURS WERE BETWEEN 60 AND
140 HOURS A MONTH AND I KNOW
FOR A FACT THAT THIS GROUP
BEFORE ME HERE IS NOT WORKING
AS MUCH AS WE DID WHEN I WAS
WITH HALF OF THIS GROUP.
I KNOW FOR A FACT BECAUSE YOU
ELIMINATED WORK SESSIONS,
YOU'VE ELIMINATED PUBLIC
COMMENT, YOU'VE ELIMINATED
SERVICE POSITIONS FOR YOUR
BOARD TO REVIEW THE INSURANCE
BOARD, REVIEW YOUR ANNUAL
MEETING, YOUR ANNUAL REGENTS
MEETING, THE BUDGET WORK
SESSIONS.
THERE'S NO MORE SITE PLAN
REVIEW.
THERE'S NO MORE SITE PLANNED
HEARINGS.
THERE'S NO MORE TRAFFIC
CONSIDERATIONS.
THERE'S NO MORE ROAD CLOSURES,
SIDEWALK CLOSURES, COUNCIL OVER
THE COMMONS.
ALL THOSE BOARDS HAVE BEEN
REMOVED SO YOU CAN ALL STAND
AND SIT THERE WITH YOUR SMIRKS
OUT OF YOUR FACES.
BUT THERE'S NO WAY YOU ARE
PUTTING IN HOURS LIKE WE DID
ABSOLUTELY NOT.
AND I STOPPED COUNTING YOUR
ABSENCES MISS AKMAN AND OTHERS
WHEN I GOT TO FIFTY TWO.
THERE HAVE BEEN FIFTY TWO
ABSENCES FROM THIS BODY IN THE
LAST TWO AND A HALF YEARS OR SO
AND I JUST QUIT COUNTING IT.
THAT'S FROM THIS MEETING AND
FROM BOARDS AND COMMISSION
MEETINGS.
SO SMIRK AND DON'T TAKE YOUR
JOB SERIOUSLY AND THE PUBLIC
SHOULD KNOW THAT IF THEY DON'T
DO ANYTHING THEY WILL GIVE
THEMSELVES A RAISE.
IT'S A IT'S A REVERSE THING.
THEY HAVE TO OPT OUT THE RACE.
SOMEONE HAS TO BRING A
RESOLUTION LIKE COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKERMAN
IS DECENT ENOUGH TO DO
WHEN I WAS ON COUNCIL TO TRY
AND DENY THAT RACE IT'S PUBLIC
SERVICE.
IT'S NOT A JOB AND YOU CAN ALL
AFFORD TO DO IT WITH WHAT
YOU'RE MAKING NOW I THINK IT'S
DISGUSTING THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
GIVE YOURSELVES A RAISE.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PETER NEXT
TIME.
IT'S BEEN SIXTEEN MONTHS SINCE
A YOUNG MAN NAMED LUCAS FOUND A
GAP IN THE CHAIN LINK FENCING
WIDENING THE GROWTH OF A CITY
ON DDA MANAGED PARKING
STRUCTURE AND JUMPED TO HIS
DEATH SIX DAYS LATER THIS
COUNCIL PASSED A RESOLUTION
URGING THE DDA TO INSTALL
IMPROVED SAFETY BARRIERS IN
CITY GARAGES.
SIX OF THOSE ELEVEN VOTES CAME
FROM CURRENT COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THEN ALMOST EXACTLY A YEAR AGO
A TEENAGER NAMED ADAM CLIMBED
THE FENCING OF A DIFFERENT
PARKING STRUCTURE AND JUMPED AT
THE NEXT MEETING I PLEADED WITH
THE BOARD AND THE STAFF FOR
URGENT ACTION TO BARRICADE THE
TOPS OF THOSE FENCES.
YET IT STILL HAS NOT HAPPENED.
THIS IS THIS IS WHAT THE TOP
OF THAT STRUCTURE LOOKED LIKE
TWO DAYS AGO.
NO BARRIER ON THE TOP AND NOW
11 DAYS AGO A THIRTY FOUR YEAR
OLD WOMAN CLIMBED THE
UNSHIELDED RUFFING OF YET
ANOTHER DDA STRUCTURE AND
JUMPED TO HER DEATH AS OF FIVE
DAYS AGO WHEN I CHECKED THE
FENCING THERE ALSO HAD NO
BARRIER ON THE TOP.
>> THERE ARE VERY EXPENSIVE
BARRIERS THAT SHOULD BE
INSTALLED BUT WE ALREADY HAVE
THE BASIC FENCING AND WHAT WE
NEED IS WHAT THEY CALL IT
TOPPER.
NOW THE SIMPLEST WOULD BE A
CONTINUOUS ROLL OF BARBED WIRE
THAT WOULD BE UGLY BUT NOT
NEARLY SO UGLY AS THE SIDE OF A
BLOODY BROKEN CORPSE ON A
DOWNTOWN SIDEWALK BUT THERE ARE
MANY OTHER POSSIBLE PRETTIER
SOLUTIONS AND DENHA HAS HAD
YEARS TO FIND THEM.
TONIGHT YOU WILL CONSIDER THE
RESOLUTION TO MAKE PERMANENT
THE APPOINTMENT OF THE INTERIM
DIRECTOR.
PLEASE ASK LOTS OF PROBING
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHY IT IS
TAKING SO LONG FOR SOMETHING TO
HAPPEN TO PROTECT OUR YOUNG
PEOPLE.
THERE HAVE BEEN NINE SUICIDES
FROM CITY STRUCTURES IN THE
PAST EIGHT YEARS.
YOU HAVE THE ULTIMATE AUTHORITY
OVER THE DDA AND ITS
STRUCTURES.
PLEASE EXERCISE THAT RESPONSE
ABILITY TO ENSURE THAT AFTER
ALL THESE YEARS AND ALL THOSE
TRAGEDIES CITIZENS STRUCTURES
WILL NO LONGER SERVE AS
PLATFORMS OF DEATH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOHSEN
IBSA.
FUNNY.
>> HELLO NABIL AND
CONGRATULATIONS ONLY IN THE
PAST FEW WEEKS PEOPLE OF NABIL
STEPPED UP TO THE PLATE AND
FOUGHT BACK AND MANAGED TO PASS
THE CEASE FIRE IN GAZA
RESOLUTION IN THREE DIFFERENT
OFFICES, THREE DIFFERENT
PLACES.
ONE OF THEM WHAT WAS ON OUR
CITY COUNCIL, WHAT WAS
EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO
UNDERSTAND WAS THE AMOUNT
OF PRESSURE WEEK AFTER WEEK
GOING TO MEETINGS, THE AMOUNT
OF PRESSURE WE HAD TO EXERT TO
GET A VERY SIMPLE STOP BOMBING
CHILDREN RESOLUTION.
WE WERE FORCED TO WE WERE
FORCED TO FIGHT DAY AND NIGHT
TO JUST GET THESE PEOPLE HERE
TO SAY YEAH, THAT'S MY CHILDREN
IN GAZA TODAY.
TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY PEOPLE
DIED IN THAT TODAY PEOPLE ARE
SHIVERING TO DEATH STARVING TO
DEATH AND DYING OF NO
MEDICATION, NO FOOD, NO WATER
EVERY DAY THAT GENOCIDE IS
HAPPENING WITH FULL SUPPORT
OF BIDEN AND THE UNITED STATES
ADMINISTRATION WITH THEIR MONEY
WITH POLITICAL, ECONOMIC AND
ALL KINDS OF SUPPORT FOR
SUPPORT FOR ISRAEL THAT SHOULD
BE A SOURCE OF MAJOR SHAME.
BUT AS WE CAN SEE, OUR ELECTED
INDIVIDUAL ELECTED
REPRESENTATIVES ARE KEEN ON
KEEPING THE BOMBS COMING.
IT'S GENOCIDE AND WE MUST STOP
IT.
WE MUST STOP SIX TIMES MORE
PEOPLE ARE DYING IN GAZA TODAY
THAN THEY DID BACK IN UKRAINE,
FOR EXAMPLE, OR IN IRAQ IN TWO
THOUSAND FORTY TWO THOUSAND
ELEVEN.
THESE TELLS YOU THAT MAGNET'S
THE SEVERITY OF THIS GENOCIDE
WE MUST STOP THIS AND I'M HERE
TO SAY CEASEFIRE ALONE IS NOT
ENOUGH.
WE MUST GET A CEASEFIRE THING
AND WE MUST ALSO CUT OFF MONEY
TO THE NAZI STATE OF ISRAEL.
ISRAEL IS A GENOCIDAL RACIST
STATE AND BY THE ACTIONS THAT
IT'S BEEN TAKING FOR SEVEN
YEARS, NOT JUST A FEW WEEKS,
NOT JUST FOUR MONTHS BUT
SEVENTY FIVE YEARS AND I WOULD
EXPECT YOU GUYS TO BE SITTING
HERE NOT TO GO BACK AND FORTH
GETTING THE FREAKING COFFEE WE
MUST STOP THIS GENOCIDE AND I'M
SURE EVERYBODY HAS HEARD HOW
UNHAPPY PEOPLE ARE WITH THE
BEHAVIOR OF THE CITY COUNCIL
AND I'LL TELL YOU WHY THEY ARE
SO, SO APT TO DO THINGS FOR THE
PUBLIC BECAUSE THEY DON'T WORK
FOR THE PUBLIC.
THEY WORK FOR MONEY IN THIS
TOWN.
THEY WORK FOR THE RICH AND THE
FAMOUS AND THEY DO NOT GIVE A
RAT'S ABOUT HEALTH, EDUCATION
OR THINK OF ANY OF THE WORKING
PEOPLE IN THIS TOWN AND CHECK
THE RECORD.
YOU WILL SEE THAT AND THEY
EXPECT MONEY FROM THEM SO THAT
THEY CAN GET ELECTED AGAIN.
AH MAYOR GOT NINETY THOUSAND
DOLLARS FROM THE ULTRA RICH IN
THIS GOT ELECTED OVER AND OVER
AGAIN AND NOW HE HAS A STOP
HERE WE SAID YES SIR I AM WITH
YOU SO I'M HERE TO SAY WE MUST
PASS A RESOLUTION THAT SAYS
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
>> THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
BLANKMAN
.
OK, I'M READY.
I SAW SOMETHING IN THE LAST FEW
WEEKS THAT I HAVEN'T SEEN IN 20
SOME YEARS SPEAKING TO A CITY
COUNCIL I SAW CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AT LEAST PRETEND TO
ENGAGE A LITTLE BIT WITH THE
COMMUNITY, WITH THE ARAB AND
MUSLIM AND HUMAN RIGHTS AND
ANTI-WAR COMMUNITY.
AND I SAW AFTER A WHOLE LOT
OF PUSHING AND PULLING THE CITY
COUNCIL FINALLY SAID OK, OK,
WE'LL PASS YOU WILL PASS A
CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION.
JUST CEASE FIRE.
WELL, I LIKE TO THINK THAT
MAYBE NOW THE CITY COUNCIL IS
GOING TO LISTEN TO THE WHOLE
COMMUNITY IN ANN ARBOR
INCLUDING THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY
,THE ARAB COMMUNITY, THE HUMAN
RIGHTS AND ANTI-WAR COMMUNITY
AND PEOPLE LIKE ME WHO ASK FOR
A RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
I LIKE TO THINK THAT PEOPLE
THINK WHAT THEY LIKE AND I'M NO
DIFFERENT.
I LIKE TO THINK THAT TWENTY
YEARS AGO DECEMBER OF TWO
THOUSAND AND THREE, YOUR HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION ASKED YOU
URGED YOU TO ADOPT A RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
AND I THINK YOU SAW MOTIONS
EMAIL A REPRODUCTION OF THAT
EXACT RESOLUTION AND IT'S TOO
LATE BUT IT'S ALSO NEVER TOO
LATE.
YOU CAN APPROVE A RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
AND HAVE SOME HEART IN
PREVENTING ISRAEL FROM KILLING
ANOTHER.
GOD KNOWS HOW MANY PALESTINIANS
.
THE OFFICIAL DEATH TOLL IS
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND PLUS
SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE TEN THOUSAND
BURIED UNDER RUBBLE MAYBE MORE
PLUS SIXTY SOME THOUSAND
WOUNDED, MAIMED, INJURED.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS THAT
ISRAEL HAS A VERY RECENTLY
KILLED OR WOUNDED OR BURIED
UNDER RUBBLE.
ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND WITH YOUR
TAX DOLLARS.
I LIKE TO IMAGINE THAT YOU
MIGHT HAVE A CONSCIENCE BUT
THAT MIGHT BE IMAGINING TOO
MUCH.
BUT I THINK YOU CAN FOLLOW
WHERE THE BASE OF YOUR PARTY IS
GOING AND THE BASE OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS GOING HARD
AND FAST IN THE DIRECTION
OF PALESTINIAN HUMAN RIGHTS.
YOU SEE THE STUDENTS ARE
MARCHING ON CAMPUS.
IF YOU TALK TO STUDENTS, YOU
KNOW THAT'S THE DIRECTION
THEY'RE GOING IN.
YOU TALK TO YOUNG PEOPLE IF YOU
TALK TO THE ARABS AND THE
MUSLIMS AND THE HUMAN RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS AND THE PEACE
ACTIVISTS AND THE ANTI-WAR
ACTIVISTS IN THIS TOWN, THAT'S
THE DIRECTION THAT THINGS ARE
GOING.
AND SO I HOPE YOU WILL GO IN
THAT DIRECTION TO AND APPROVE A
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
>> THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
HORNELL?
THANK YOU.
I WILL BE REALLY BRIEF.
I JUST WANTED TO ANNOUNCE THAT
WE ARE AGAIN DOING A FRIENDLY
COMPETITION BETWEEN WORDS FOUR
AND FIVE COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE
DID SO IF YOU'D LIKE TO PLATE
YOU NEED TO GO TO
GET DOWNTOWN
IN WINDBAG ONE WORD AND SIGN UP
FOR WARD FIVE AND TO EXPLAIN
THIS IS TO HELP OUR COMMUNITY
ADOPT OTHER WAYS
OF TRANSPORTATION AROUND TOWN
AND TO REALLY EXPAND MAYBE
THEIR HORIZONS AND
COMFORT LEVELS DOING THAT SO
THAT WE AREN'T ALWAYS BOUND BY
CAR.
EVERYTHING KIND OF COUNTS FROM
BUSSES TO SCOOTERS TO
RIDESHARES AND EVEN
TELECOMMUTING TO WORK COUNTS
FOR POINTS AND IT'S REALLY
INTERESTING AT THE END EVEN IF
YOU'RE NOT A COMPETITIVE PERSON
TO SEE HOW MUCH GREENHOUSE GAS
WAS SAVED BY THESE ALTERNATIVE
TRANSPORTATION MODES AND HOW
MANY POUNDS OF GREENHOUSE GASES
ARE PRODUCED WHEN YOU CHOOSE TO
RIDE IN A CAR VERSUS TAKE
ALTERNATIVE METHODS SO IT'S
FUN.
IT'S A FRIENDLY COMPETITION AND
OTHER WORDS CAN GET INVOLVED TO
BOARD FIVE IS THE ONE THAT
ACTUALLY HAS AN ESTABLISHED
TEAM JUST RIGHT NOW.
SO WHEN ON THE WEBSITE TO
SEARCH FOR THAT AND JOIN US FOR
CONSUMER DISH.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO SPEND HEALING
THOUGHTS TO OUR COLLEAGUE DARMA
AKMAN WHO FELL ON THE ICE THE
OTHER NIGHT AND IS NOT WITH US
THIS EVENING.
SO I HOPE SHE HEALS QUICKLY.
I WANT TO GIVE THE HEARTIEST
THANKS TO OUR PUBLIC SERVICES
AREA SIGNS AND SIGNALS TEAM.
THEY HAVE WORKED SO QUICKLY AND
EFFICIENTLY TO REBUILD THE
TRAFFIC SIGNAL PLYMOUTH AND
MAIN LINE WHICH SUFFERED
CATASTROPHIC DAMAGE IN THE VERY
EARLY MORNING OF JANUARY 9TH.
SO AT THREE THIRTY TODAY WHEN I
WAS I'M SORRY DRIVING I SAW
THAT THE SIGNAL WAS UP AND
RUNNING AGAIN AND I WANT TO
THANK YOU ALSO TO ALL THE
RESIDENTS WHO PATIENTLY
NAVIGATED THE FOUR WAY STOP
WHILE OUR TECHS WAITED FOR THE
REPLACEMENT PARTS TO ARRIVE
FINALLY.
OH, I'M SORRY ALSO WANT TO
PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGED RECEIPT
OF STAFF'S RESPONSE TO OUR JUNE
5TH REQUEST TO FOR A MEMO
IDENTIFYING INCENTIVES TO
SUPPORT VOLUNTARY EFFORTS BY
RESIDENTS AND BUSINESSES TO
INCREASE EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS.
A LITTLE BIT INFELICITOUS
LANGUAGE THERE BUT TO REDUCE
EMISSIONS VOLUNTARILY THROUGH A
TRANSITION TO SUSTAINABLE AND
CLEAN HEATING AS WELL AS
THROUGH BENEFICIAL
ELECTRIFICATION.
I HAVE HAD SEVERAL MEETINGS
WITH RESIDENTS WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN HELPING TO
ADVOCATE FOR THESE CHANGES AND
I LOOK FORWARD TO SCHEDULING
MORE OF THEM NOW THAT THIS MEMO
HAS ARRIVED.
>> AND SO THANK YOU COUNCILOR.
>> THANK YOU.
I I DID WANT TO ADDRESS SOME
OF THE CRITICISMS THAT WERE
LEVIED AT US FROM A FROM A
COMMENT OR A PUBLIC COMMENT
ABOUT THE LEVEL OF WORK THAT
THIS COUNCIL DOES.
I DO THINK IT'S WORTH NOTING
THAT THIS IS PERHAPS THE
YOUNGEST COUNCIL THAT WE'VE HAD
IN HISTORY.
WE KNOW IT IS THE MOST DIVERSE
COUNCIL THAT WE'VE HAD IN
HISTORY AND THIS COUNCIL IS
FILLED WITH PEOPLE WHO HAVE
OTHER JOBS, WHO HAVE YOUNG
FAMILIES AND THEIR COMMITMENTS
AND OUR WAS MA'AM CONTROL
YOURSELF CHINGFORD AND WHO HAVE
THINGS THAT COME UP FROM TIME
TO TIME.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THEY'RE
NOT WORKING HARD FOR THEIR
CONSTITUENTS.
I SEE WHAT THEY'RE DOING EVERY
DAY.
WE ALSO ARE A COUNCIL THAT YOU
KNOW, SINCE COVID IT'S IT'S
MORE ACCEPTABLE TO STAY HOME
WHEN YOU'RE SICK.
WE WANT PEOPLE TO STAY HOME
WHEN WHEN THEY'RE SICK AND SO
SO THAT ACCOUNTS FOR SOME
OF TOO.
BUT I DO THINK THAT IT'S IT'S
JUST IT'S WORTH NOTING THAT IN
MY EXPERIENCE HAVING AS A
JOURNALIST COVERED MANY CITY
COUNCILS IN OTHER LOCATIONS
THAT ABSENCES ARE ACTUALLY
RATHER COMMON AND HERE FOR A
LONG TIME OUR COUNCIL WAS
POPULATED BY PEOPLE WHO WERE
RETIREES OR OTHERWISE GAINFULLY
EMPLOYED AND WE THIS IS A
COUNCIL THAT HAS A LOT GOING ON
AND I JUST APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT ALL OF MY COLLEAGUES DO
EVERY DAY AND EVERYTHING THEY
BRING TO THE TABLE AND LOOK
FORWARD TO TAKING CARE OF OUR
BUSINESS TONIGHT.
>> COUNCILOR SONG I LIKE THAT.
>> I KNOW OUR OWN FAMILIES
STRUGGLED WITH SEVERAL ROUNDS
OF COVID MERSA WHICH IS STAPH
INFECTIONS, HAND FOOT MOUTH
DISEASE AND I APPRECIATE MY
COLLEAGUES TELL ME ABSOLUTELY
DO NOT COME AND BRING THAT HERE
TO COUNCIL OR TO THE PUBLIC AND
GIVING OUR FAMILY TIME TO
RECOVER.
ON ANOTHER NOTE I WANTED TO
REFLECT ON LAST WEEK'S STORM
AND THE CITY'S RESPONSE IN
FOLLOWING IT AND PATIENCE WITH
CONSTITUENTS WHO ARE LEARNING
THAT THE CITY OUR CITY STREETS,
THE COUNTY PLOWS COUNTY STREETS
AND THEN THE STATE DOES THEIR
OWN PLOWING AND THAT THAT
RESPONSIVENESS COMES 24 HOURS
AFTER THE LAST SNOWFALL.
I KNOW THAT ALSO COINCIDED WITH
NATIONAL CELEBRATIONS WITH A
FOOTBALL TEAM THAT WAS A BIG
DEAL AND BEATS WERE FOR THAT.
AND I UNDERSTAND I THINK
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON HAS
BROUGHT ME UP TO DATE THAT U
OF M HAS THEIR OWN PLOWS TOO.
SO EVERYONE HAS THEIR OWN PLOWS
.
I KNOW THERE'S DISSATISFACTION
GENERALLY AFTER STORMS AS TO
THE RATE THAT OUR PLOWS MOVE
BUT YOU CAN AT LEAST TRACK THEM
.
I WOULD LOVE IT IF WE NEED THEM
BUT IN THE INTERIM WE DO
ACTUALLY HAVE OUR PLOWS OUT AND
I JUST WANT TO THANK THE CITY
OF BEING SO RESPONSIBLE THAT
THINGS FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL AND COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA THANKS BUT I JUST WANTED
TO UPLIFT TO THE FACT THAT OUR
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION IS ACCEPTING
APPLICATIONS FOR THEIR SIXTH
GROUP OF EIGHT TO ZERO
AMBASSADORS.
THE PROGRAM WILL LAUNCH IN
MARCH BUT THE DEADLINE TO APPLY
IS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14TH.
I BELIEVE IT IS A 12 WEEK
PROGRAM AND UP TO TWENTY FIVE
INDIVIDUALS WILL BE ACCEPTED.
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS IF YOU'RE
INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN
THAT YOU CAN FIND THE
APPLICATION AT HQ IF THAT
WORKS, AMBASSADORS FURTHER
COUNCIL RIGGS, ONE FINAL THING
THAT'S HAPPENING FOLKS MIGHT BE
WANT TO BE AWARE OF IT ON
JANUARY TWENTY NINTH AT SEVEN
P.M. IN THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS
THERE'S GOING TO BE A PUBLIC
HEARING PERTAINING TO THE
FUTURE OF WHAT IS REFERRED TO
AS THE OLD CLINES LOCK BUT IT'S
THE PARKING LOT ON THE ALONG
FIRST IN WILLIAM BEHIND ANIBA
ARTS CENTER AND MAIN STREET AND
SISMI PRESENTATION HERE IS ALSO
GOING TO BE BROADCAST ON ZOOME
COULD FIND INFORMATION OUT ON
THE PRESS RELEASE ON THE CITY'S
WEBSITE.
IT'S LOCATED IN THE FIFTH SO I
JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE I
MENTIONED THAT.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY REALLY I
DON'T THINK IT'S A PUBLIC
HEARING.
I THINK IT'S A PUBLIC
PRESENTATION.
GOOD POINT.
GOOD CORRECTION.
PRETTY QUICK
ABOUT I'D LIKE TO
RECOMMEND THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AT OUR NEXT
MEETING THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION LISA CAMPBELL TO THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES, LORRAINE BEWES TO THE
BOARD OF REVIEW.
ELIZABETH MARTIN TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
DANIEL ADAMS FOR MY PART TWO I
WOULD LIKE TO OBSERVE THAT WE
KICKED OFF AN ARBORS
BICENTENNIAL LAST FRIDAY WITH
AN EVENT AT THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
IT WAS HOSTED BY JOHN YOO BAKAN
POETRY BY AND WORKING AND A
GOOD AND OTHER PRESENTATIONS BY
MANY OTHERS IN A GOOD TIME WAS
HAD BY ALL.
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF PROJECTS
THAT ARE BEING HIGHLIGHTED HERE
AT THE NEWSPOLL ORGANIZATION
CERTAINLY FIRST THE THE WORK TO
BE DONE AT BICENTENNIAL PARK SE
AS WELL AS SOUTHEAST AREA PARK
AND THEN TO THE THE IMPROVEMENT
AND RENOVATIONS OF THE ELKS
LODGE.
THOSE ARE THE THE CENTRAL
BICENTENNIAL PROJECTS FOR THE
MUNICIPAL ORGANIZATION BUT
OF COURSE WE ARE DELIGHTED AS
PART OF OUR BICENTENNIAL TO TO
UNLEASH THE THE BRAND AND
CONCEPT TO CONSTITUENT GROUPS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY IN THE
HOPES AND EXPECTATION THAT THEY
WILL TAKE UPON THEMSELVES AND
ON THEIR OWN AND IN
COLLABORATION WITH THE
BICENTENNIAL CO-ORDINATION
COMMISSION AND MEMBERS OF STAFF
TO CELEBRATE AND ARBOR'S
BICENTENNIAL IN IN THEIR OWN
WAY FURTHER DISCUSSION.
OH NO THERE IS NO FURTHER
DISCUSSION JUST ME.
WE HAVE OF COURSE THE CONSENT
AGENDA.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE
BY COUNTERMARCH.
SECOND MY COUNCILOR OUR
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA BRITISH MAY I SEE A
SEVEN COUNCILMAN SONG JUST TO
COME IN AND SEE SIX PLEASE HOW
EXCITED I AM THAT WE WILL HAVE
OUR CITY'S SCRATCHPAD.
IF YOU REMEMBER THERE ARE
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT A POTENTIAL
SPLASH PAD THE LIBRARY LOT BACK
IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN SO WE ARE
SIX YEARS FROM THAT
CONVERSATION.
THAT'S BASICALLY IF YOUR CHILD
WAS A KINDERGARTNER THEY ARE
NOW MIDDLE SCHOOLERS
EXPERIENCING THE CITY'S FIRST
SPLASH PAD OR THEY MIGHT HAVE
BEEN GOING TO PLYMOUTH TOWNSHIP
WHERE THERE WAS A SPLASH PAD
SINCE 2003.
SO I'M GLAD THAT ANN ARBOR IS
CATCHING UP.
IT'S IT'S JUST UNFORTUNATE THAT
IT TAKES TWENTY YEARS PAST
PLYMOUTH TO GET THIS GOING.
ELLEN, THANK YOU AND THANK YOU
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG AND WHAT
I'M ALSO REALLY EXCITED ABOUT
THE PURCHASE OF THE SPLASH PAD
AND I JUST WANT TO SEND A QUICK
REMINDER THIS WILL BE OUR FIRST
SPLASH PAD THAT'S PUBLICLY
ACCESSIBLE THAT WILL BE FULLY
ACCESSIBLE TO PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES THE CITY WHICH IS
AMAZING AND WE STILL ARE
FUNDRAISING ANOTHER NINE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS AND
THAT WILL BE USED TO REDO
PATHWAY BATHROOMS, THE PAVILION
AND OTHER AMENITIES SO THAT
THEY TOO ARE FULLY ACCESSIBLE.
SO THAT'S A HUGE WIN FOR OUR
CITY TO LEARN
MORE YOU CAN GO
TO TO BICENTENNIAL DOT ORG
TRIBAL THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION FAVRE POSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF C A SEVEN WITH
NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THAT SET ASIDE THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT OF THE SPEC TO SEE
A THREE FOUR AND C A SIX K
SEVEN RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
ONE TWO ONE KATHERINE STREET
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DIS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF SEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I ONLY PULLED THIS BECAUSE I
REALLY WANTED TO TALK ABOUT IT
IN FULL AND TO EXPRESS MY UTTER
DELIGHT TO SEE THE FIRST
PROJECT COME TO THE TABLE OUT
OF THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THIS IS COMING TO US JUST TWO
POINT FIVE YEARS AFTER THOSE
FUNDS STARTED FLOWING VOTERS
APPROVED THE MILLAGE IN
NOVEMBER TWENTY TWENTY THE
MONIES KICKED IN IN THE
FOLLOWING FISCAL YEAR WHICH
STARTS IN JULY TWENTY TWENTY
ONE WE ARE APPROVING THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND ANN
ARBOR HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION WHICH WILL
CONSTRUCT A SIX STOREY
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING AT THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF NORTH
FOURTH AVENUE AND CATHERINE
STREET.
THIS BUILDING WILL START TO
PROVIDE WHAT OUR RESIDENTS
VOTED FOR BACK IN TWENTY TWENTY
SIXTY THREE APARTMENT UNITS
AFFORDABLE TO LOWER INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS AT OR BELOW SIXTY
PERCENT OF AREA MEDIAN INCOME.
HALF OF THESE WILL BE RESERVED
FOR SUPPORTIVE HOUSING AND HALF
FOR PEOPLE IN LOBBYING AND
CREATIVE FIELDS.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS WE HEARD
VERY ELOQUENTLY AT THE
BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION ON
FRIDAY NIGHT WAS HOW DIFFICULT
IT IS TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR IF
YOU ARE AN ARTIST AND I WOULD
NOT WANT ANN ARBOR TO BE A
PLACE WHERE ARTISTS COULD NO
LONGER LIVE THE GROUND FLOOR
OF THIS BUILDING WILL HAVE SOME
RETAIL SPACE AS WELL AS AS I
SAID, SUPPORT SERVICES FOR
TENANTS.
THE PROPERTY WILL BE MANAGED
AND SUPPORTED BY AVALON HOUSING
.
MANY OF THE PROJECTS FEATURES
FOLLOW THE VISION OF A
REMARKABLE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL WHICH IS COMPOSED
OF TWELVE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WITH INTERGENERATIONAL TIES TO
THE HISTORICALLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE THIS PROJECT
WILL BE LOCATED.
THAT USED TO BE, I SHOULD SAY,
WHERE THIS PROJECT WILL BE
LOCATED.
THEIR WORK WHICH HAS BEEN
ADVISED BY MESFIN JOHNSON, HAS
OFFERED A NEW MODEL FOR
BUILDING TRUST AND EMPOWERMENT
THROUGH COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
AND JUST A FEW MORE GOOD THINGS
IF YOU'LL PERMIT ME THE
DEVELOPMENT WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC EXCEPT FOR A GAS
GENERATOR TOGETHER THE ANN
ARBOR HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION AND OSHA CONTINUE
TO EXPLORE THE FEASIBILITY
OF GEOTHERMAL FOR THE SITE AND
I'M NOT SURE IF ANYONE'S HEARD
THAT THAT'S OK NOW PLEASE SPEAK
UP THERE WILL BE PUBLICLY
AVAILABLE ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING STATIONS WITH
CAPABILITY FOR ADDITIONAL ONES
AND THIS IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT
IN ARCTIC WEATHER AS WE NOW
KNOW FOR PEOPLE WHO DO NOT HAVE
GARAGES TO HAVE A PLACE TO FEED
THEIR CARS, THERE WILL BE
RAINWATER CAPTURE ON THE ROOF,
PREPARATION FOR FUTURE SOLAR
PANELS, LOW FLOW THAT WAS IT
FOR ME WATER FIXTURES, ENERGY
EFFICIENT LIGHTING AND MORE
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES AND I
HAVE TIME OR BREATH TO LIST FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON, I WANT
TO ECHO THE WORDS OF COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH AND ALSO TO THANK
JENNIFER HALL FOR ALL THE WORK
THAT'S DURING THE BUDGET
SEASON.
I ACTUALLY ASKED A MEMBER
OF THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL, JAMAL BUFFORD TO SHARE
SOME OF HIS THOUGHTS ON THIS
PROJECT AND I JUST WANTED TO
READ THOSE YOU KNOW, HE SAYS
THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL IS COMPRISED
OF RESIDENTS AND DESCENDANTS
OF RESIDENTS OF THIS FORMERLY
PREDOMINANTLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD ASIDE FROM
PROVIDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FOR INDIVIDUALS COMING OUT
OF SHELTER AND ARTISTS, WE WANT
THIS PLACE TO HAVE A CONSTANT
PRESENCE OF ART HONORING THE
RICH BLACK HISTORY FROM THIS
AREA OF ANN ARBOR THROUGHOUT
THE BUILDING WE WANT THE FIRST
FLOOR TO BE WELCOMING NOT ONLY
TO THE RESIDENTS BUT ALSO TO
THE BROADER COMMUNITY.
WE WANT THIS SPACE TO BE USED
TO ADDRESS COMMUNITY NEEDS AS
AN EVENT SUCH COMMUNAL
GATHERING SPACE TO PROMOTE
ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND FOR SKILL
BUILDING.
WE WANT BLACK PEOPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY TO BEGIN TO ENVISION
HOW THIS SPACE CAN BE A
WELCOMING HOME SO ONCE AGAIN
JUST CAN'T EXPRESS HOW GRATEFUL
I AM THAT THE CITY HAS PURSUED
THIS PROJECT.
IT'S FINALLY COMING TO FRUITION
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL IN
BRAZIL.
IF I CAN ADD RECOGNITION TO
DIRECTOR JENNIFER HALL THAT
HOUSING COMMISSION DIRECTOR
JENNIFER HALL AND BEING ABLE TO
NOT ONLY BRING THIS INTO
INTERIOR CITY WITH THE CITY AND
CAN BE PARTNERS BUT FIGURE OUT
HOW TO FINANCE IT.
SO BEYOND THE MILLAGE I THINK
THE ONE THING THAT WE'VE
LEARNED IS THAT THIS TOOK 11 OR
12 FUNDS TO BRING TOGETHER FROM
STATE FUNDING HUD FUNDING OUR
MILLION DOLLARS FOR FOLKS WHO
ARE WONDERING WHY IT TOOK SO
LONG TO EVEN GET TO THIS POINT
OF FINANCING THESE PROJECTS.
'T GET DISCOUNTS ON THE
CITY TO THE CITY ALSO HAS TO
COMPETE FOR LABOR CITY ALSO HAS
TO COMPETE FOR SUPPLIES SO
SUPPLIES.
SO I KUDOS TO JENNIFER HALL FOR
PULLING THIS TOGETHER WHILE
PULLING OTHER PROJECTS
TOGETHER.
SO THIS IS A GOOD EXAMPLE
OF HOW WE CAME THIS EVENING.
ANN ARBOR CAN MEET ITS PROMISE
IN ADDRESSING OUR HOUSING
CRISIS AND THEN ALSO FIND
PARTNERS BEYOND THE CITY AND
ACTUALLY FINANCING IT
FOR MY
PROGRAM.
I'M INCREDIBLY EXCITED ABOUT
THE PROGRESS ON THIS PROJECT.
WE OF COURSE DO HAVE AN
AFFORDABILITY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING CRISIS.
WE IN RECOGNITION OF THE VOTERS
WORK PASSING THE MILLAGE IN
TWENTY TWENTY WE ARE
ACCELERATING OUR WORK IN THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FEAR.
THIS IS A CRUCIAL FIRST STEP
SITE AND I'M EXCITED THAT WE'RE
FINALLY GETTING IT DONE FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FABER POST IT IS
APPROVED.
WE NOW COME TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS, PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS
PUBLIC HEARINGS DO NOT NEED TO
SIGN UP IN ADVANCE BUT THEIR
SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
AGENDA ITEM TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED.
WHEN YOUR TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER
ONE AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE REZONING
OF FORTY FIVE PARCELS IN THE
PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA TO SEE ONE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR DISTRICT CITY
INITIATED REZONING.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
NO NEED TO RAISE HANDS JUST
COME ON UP AND MAKE IT HAPPEN
.
MR. MAYOR, MEMBERS OF THE CITY
COUNCIL MY NAME IS COURTNEY
BARNETT.
I HAVE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR SINCE
NINETEEN SEVENTY FIVE AND IF MY
PRESENT ADDRESS SINCE NINETEEN
EIGHTY MY ROOTS GO DEEP IN THIS
CITY AND I SPEAK TO YOU FROM
THAT PERSPECTIVE BECAUSE THE
SUBJECT OF THIS REZONING I
BELIEVE THAT THERE IS A SERIOUS
ISSUE WHICH HAS BEEN
OVERLOOKED.
THAT'S BAD NEWS .
THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT A REALLY
SIMPLE SOLUTION BUT YOU'VE GOT
TO DO IT BEFORE YOU PASS THE
REZONING.
HERE'S A PROBLEM A SERIES
OF EVENTS COME TOGETHER TO
CREATE THE POSSIBILITY THAT IF
THIS ZONING GOES THROUGH AS
PROPOSED THE T C ONE ZONE ALLOW
VERY TALL BUILDINGS AS PART
OF THE DC ONE.
IT'S KIND OF A TIP OF THE HAT
TO THE IDEA WHICH I KNOW NEAR
AND DEAR TO ALL OF YOUR HEARTS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING BECAUSE
THE PUBLIC HEARING A
PRESENTATION AT TRAVER WOULD
LIBRARY IN OCTOBER .
MR. LEONARD OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION DESCRIBED THIS AS
ROUGHLY THESE ARE MY WORDS BUT
THIS IS THE WAY IT CAME ACROSS
IS THAT WHAT THIS WOULD ALLOW
IS HIGH RISE, HIGH DENSITY LOW
INCOME HOUSING TO A HEIGHT
OF BETWEEN FIVE STORIES.
NOW YOU'VE GOT TO VISUALIZE THE
MAP TO GET THIS.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS THAT WITH
THIS ZONING STRETCHING FROM US
TWENTY THREE DOWN TO ABOUT THE
BROADWAY BRIDGE AND COVERING
THE PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA IN
BETWEEN HIGH RISE BUILDINGS
ALONG THAT NORTHERN RIM
OF PLYMOUTH ROAD WILL CREATE
CHATEAU THAT WILL GO DEEP INTO
THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS IN ALL
OF THE AREAS.
BUT SPECIFICALLY MY CONCERN IS
WITH THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS
ALONG PLYMOUTH ROAD THE EFFECT
OF THIS ABSOLUTELY UNINTENDED
BUT UNAVOIDABLE IS THAT THOSE
HIGH BUILDINGS WILL LESSEN THE
SUNLIGHT THAT FALLS ON THE
RESIDENTS THOSE AREAS THERE IS
NO BENEFIT WHATSOEVER TO THE
PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR IN LOSING
THAT SUNLIGHT AND IT IS
ABSOLUTE NECESSARY, UNNECESSARY
AND UNINTENDED.
IT IS SIMPLY A CONSEQUENCE
OF THE TAG ALONG THAT THE TSAY
ONE IN ADDITION TO THE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ISSUES THAT ADDRESSES
ALSO ADDRESSES AFFORDED HOUSING
.
NOW I WANT TO MAKE IT CLEAR
THAT THE ONLY ASPECT OF THIS
THAT I BRING TO YOUR ATTENTION
IS THE HEIGHT OF THE NEW
BUILDINGS.
IT WILL GO IN NOT THERE USE IT
DOESN'T MATTER THAT THEY ARE
HIGH DENSITY.
IT DOESN'T MATTER THAT IT IS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THEY COULD BE MCMANSION, THEY
COULD BE A NEW NORTHERN WHITE
HOUSE.
THEY COULD BE YOUR FAVORITE
WINTER SPORTS PLACE.
DOESN'T MATTER.
ALL THAT MATTERS IS THAT BIG
HIGH TALL BUILDINGS ARE GOING
TO CAST LONGER SHADOWS THAN
SHORT ONES AND THOSE SHADOWS
BECAUSE THEY ARE TO THE SOUTH
BECAUSE THOSE THAT EAST WEST
AXIS OF TALL BUILDINGS IS TO
THE SOUTH OF THE RESIDENTIAL
AREAS.
>> IT MEANS THAT WHEN THE
PEOPLE LIVING THERE LOOK TO THE
SOUTH THEY'RE NOT GONNA BE ABLE
TO SEE THE SUN.
>> HERE'S ONE OF TWO YOU EITHER
AMENDED I GOT RIGHT TO THE
POINT WHERE I CAN GET YOU OUT
OF THIS AND YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
LET ME OK, HELP ME FIGURE IT
OUT.
TWO QUICK SOLUTIONS
.
THANK YOU.
BYE
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ANNA SHOTE.
I'M A GRADUATE STUDENT
ATTENDING THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
I CURRENTLY LIVE AT NINETEEN
TWENTY NINE PLYMOUTH ROAD
APARTMENT TEN THIRTY FOUR.
THIS IS THE WILLOW TREE TOWERS
THE APARTMENT COMPLEX ON THE
EDGE OF THE PLYMOUTH AREA
CENTRAL DISCUSSED IN THE
REZONING PROPOSAL.
THIS IS MY SECOND YEAR LIVING
IN THAT SPECIFIC AREA OF TOWN.
WELL I DO OWN A CAR.
I TAKE PRIDE IN NOT DEPENDING
ON IT.
I TRAVEL TO NORTH AND CENTRAL
CAMPUSES BY FOOT AND BUS NEARLY
EVERY DAY AND REGULARLY WALK TO
SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS IN THE
PROPOSAL AREA.
I EVEN MAKE THE MOST OF MY
COMMUTES TO DOWNTOWN BY BUS AS
I DID TONIGHT.
I CAN COMFORTABLY SAY THAT I
SHARE THIS EXPERIENCE WITH MANY
OTHER STUDENTS LIVING NEAR
NORTH CAMPUS AND ARBOR'S PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK IS A
VITAL COMPONENT OF THE LIVES
OF EVERY STUDENT.
WHETHER OR NOT THEY HAVE OTHER
MEANS OF MOVING AROUND TOWN
WELL MY MAIN UNDERGRADUATE
STUDIES WERE ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING.
I DID COMPLETE MOBILITY SYSTEMS
MINOR AND I'VE DECIDED TO STAY
AND PURSUE A MASTER'S IN
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING IN
ADDITION TO MORE ELECTRICAL.
ONE THING WE DISCUSSED IN CLASS
WAS THE CONFLUENCE OF TRANSIT
SYSTEM DESIGN AND PUBLIC POLICY
MEASURES LIKE ZOAR.
NOW I'M SURE AS YOU ALL ARE
AWARE, ZONING POLICIES ARE
STRONG ENFORCERS OF TRANSIT
MODE CHOICE AND ARE THE
BACKBONE FOR LONG TERM SHAPING
OF URBAN DEVELOPMENT.
I'VE BEEN FOLLOWING THIS FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS NOW AND I'M VERY
HAPPY WITH THE CITY
OF ANTAKYA'S DIRECTION WITH
URBANIZATION IN THIS WAY AND
OTHER CITIES AND OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES LIKE MY HOMETOWN
CARMEL, INDIANA NON CAR USERS
ARE OFTEN ENDANGERED IN OR
EXCLUDED FROM SPACES ENTIRELY
DUE TO ZONING POLICIES.
I BELIEVE THE CITY'S GOALS FOR
PROMOTING SUSTAINABILITY AND
CONSUMER CHOICE ARE LAUDABLE
AND IMPORTANT PART OF EVOLVING
ANN ARBOR, THE ONE ZONING
DESIGNATION WILL PROMOTE
IMPORTANT MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT
IN THE PLIMOTH AREAS WHILE ALSO
INCREASING THE POSSIBLE
EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION ALREADY
OPERATING THERE.
I THINK STUDENTS IN PARTICULAR
WILL BENEFIT FROM.
STUDENTS IN PARTICULAR WILL
BENEFIT FROM A GREATER
DIVERSITY OF RETAILERS AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THE SPACE
AND I THINK THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL SHOULD VOTE IN FAVOR
OF REZONING.
I DO HAVE TWO SPECIFIC
QUESTIONS I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THE COUNCIL CONSIDERS IN THEIR
DECISION.
FIRST OFF OUTDOOR RECREATION
WHETHER PARKS OR OTHERWISE ARE
NOT PERMITTED TO TAKE ONE ZONE.
AND I KNOW THAT THE PLYMOUTH
AREA IS HOME TO MORE GREENERY
THAN MUCH OF DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR
OR THE OTHER CENTRAL CAPE
OF SPACE.
I JUST WANT TO KNOW THAT THE
CITY HAS A PLAN TO POTENTIALLY
INTEGRATE GREENERY OR OFFSET
SOME OF THE LOST PLANT SPACE IN
THOSE ZONED AREAS IN FUTURE
DEVELOPMENTS.
I ALSO KNOW THAT ONE DOES NOT
PERMIT FUELING STATIONS AT
LEAST THAT I CHECKED.
I UNDERSTAND THAT NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES WILL BE PERMITTED TO
KEEP OPERATING UP UNTIL THEY
ARE INTERRUPTED BY THEIR
CONCERNS EITHER IN THE SHORT
TERM OR THE LONG TERM THAT AS
FAR AS I CAN TELL THE ONLY GAS
STATIONS IN ANN ARBOR NORTH
OF HERE ON RIVER ARE WITHIN THE
ZONES THAT ARE BEING CHANGED.
THANK YOU.
GREETINGS.
BOSCO'S RESIDENT OF THE FIRST
WORD I LIVE NEAR PLYMOUTH ROAD
AND WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK IN
STRONG FAVOR OF THIS REZONING.
I'M NOT AFRAID OF TALL
BUILDINGS.
I AM ACTUALLY I WOULD CONTEND
WITH MY NEIGHBOR THAT FIVE TO
EIGHT STOREYS IS TOO SHORT.
I THINK YOU SHOULD BUILD THEM
ALL AND BUILD THEM AT ALL.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DAVID LYON AND I'M
HERE REPRESENTING CONCORDIA
UNIVERSITY AND NURSING SCHOOL
IS LOCATED AT THREE FOUR SEVEN
FIVE ON THE THROAT.
I'M HERE TO ACTUALLY SUPPORT
THE ZONING ORDINANCE THAT
HOPEFULLY WILL GET PASSED
TONIGHT AND I WE ACTUALLY IN
PART BELIEVE LARGELY IN WHAT
THE GENTLEMAN HERE SPOKE WITH
RESPECT TO TODD ZONING NO LESS
THAN FOUR BUS STOPS THAT
SURROUND OUR PROPERTY.
AND ALL THAT BEING SAID, I'M
ALSO HERE TONIGHT TO
RESPECTFULLY REQUEST THAT OUR
PROPERTY ACTUALLY BE INCLUDED
IN THAT DESIGNATION OR ARRIVING
TOO LITTLE TOO LATE.
SO TO SPEAK TO HAVE THAT DONE
TONIGHT.
BUT I'M HERE TO ASK THE CITY
COUNCIL THAT AT SOME POINT IN
THE NEAR FUTURE THEY WOULD
CONSIDER AN AMENDMENT TO
ACTUALLY INCLUDE OUR PROPERTY
IN THAT ZONING.
WE HAVE SUBMITTED A LETTER TO
THE CITY CLERK THAT GIVES THE
LOGIC BEHIND THAT I'LL GIVE YOU
A LITTLE FLAVOR FOR WHAT THAT
INCLUDES OUR SITE SITS
IMMEDIATELY TO THE NORTH OF APD
THAT IS INCLUDED IN THAT ZONE
AND HISTORY WILL SHOW THAT IT
WAS ACTUALLY ONE PARCEL
ORIGINALLY AND WAS SPLIT UP.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, THE MASTER
PLAN OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
DATED I BELIEVE 2009 CHAPTER
TEN HAS SOME SPECIFIC DIRECTION
OR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OUR SITE
.
I BELIEVE ITS SITE AREA EIGHT
WHERE THE PASSED OFF THE
AUTHORS OF THAT DOCUMENT
RECOMMENDED THAT OUR SITE BE
DEVELOPED IN A WAY THAT
INTEGRATES WITH THE SITE TO THE
SOUTH WHICH IS THE PUDI.
IT'S GOING TO BE APPROVED
HOPEFULLY TONIGHT UNDER TCW
ZONING.
SO THANK YOU.
I REALLY APPRECIATE THE
PROGRESS OF WHAT I BELIEVE IS A
PROGRESSIVE MOVE IN EMPHASIZING
QUIXOTE'S ZONING AND HOPEFULLY
I'LL BE BEFORE YOU IN THE
FUTURE FOR AN AMENDMENT TO
INCLUDE OUR PROPERTY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
I'M HERE TO FINISH THIS
GENTLEMAN TWO POINTS.
WHAT HE WHAT HE WAS GOING TO
SUGGEST WAS WHICH IS NOT A
TERRIBLE IDEA AND WE COULD HAVE
APPLIED IT IN MANY OTHER PLACES
IN THE CITY WITH MANY MANY A
BETTER RESULTS THAT THE HATE
THAT IS GAINED BY ADDING THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING COMPONENT
WHICH IS THE ONE REALLY
NECESSARY COMPONENT OF ALL
OF THIS IS THE YOU KNOW, THE
SUGGESTION WAS THAT THAT COULD
BE REMOVED TO KEEP THE
BUILDINGS LOWER.
MY MY TAKE ON THAT IS THAT
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
BUT THE BUILDINGS COULD HAVE
BEEN SET LOWER IN THE FIRST
PLACE AND THEN THE BONUS
WOULDN'T HAVE CREATED THESE
LARGE BUILDINGS.
NOW LIKE LIKE MY NEIGHBOR HERE
I'M NOT AFRAID OF LARGE
BUILDINGS AND THAT'S WHY WE
HAVE A YOU KNOW, THE DOWNTOWN
AREA FOR ONE THING THAT YOU
WANT TO DO TOO AND SO ON.
AND THERE IS PLACES FOR LARGE
BUILDINGS IN THOSE PLACES THAT
THEY CAST SHADOWS AND RUIN IT
FOR OTHERS AND IT'S UNFORTUNATE
THAT THE PART IS THE HEAVIEST
CONCENTRATION OF CURRENT
RESIDENTIAL IS BETWEEN GREEN
AND NIXON WROTE IN HIS
SUGGESTION IS THAT YOU JUST
SIMPLY EXCLUDE THOSE HANDFUL
PARCELLS AND GROENENDIJK ZERO
AND THAT WAS THE OTHER THING
THAT THIS GENTLEMAN WANTED TO
SAY AND AND YOU KNOW, I DON'T
DISAGREE WITH THAT EITHER.
MY CONSIDERATION WITH THIS ONE
IS THAT IT'S SORT OF A ONE
YOU'RE TRYING TO MAKE A ONE
SIZE FITS ALL THING HERE AND IT
NEGLECTS THE CONSIDERATION THAT
EVERY AREA OF THE CITY IS
DIFFERENT AND UNIQUE AND THESE
AREN'T REALLY TRANSIT HUBS.
IF THERE'S A BUS STOP THERE
DOESN'T MAKE IT A TRANSIT HUB
PER SAY AND THE DEFINITION OF A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR IN THE CITY IS
SO VAGUE AS TO APPLY TO ALMOST
ANY CITY OR ANY STREET WHERE A
BUS GOES.
AND I KNOW THAT THERE'S
CERTAINLY FOLKS WHO REPRESENT
SAY LABOR UNIONS WHO WOULD LOVE
TO BUILD, BUILD, BUILD OR YOU
KNOW, DONATE TO THE MAYOR'S PAC
AND THAT'S GREAT AND THAT'S HOW
IT WORKS.
THAT'S FINE.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT TAKE ONE
AND AND HOW IT'S BEEN APPLIED
ACROSS THE CITY AND HOW MANY
HUNDREDS HUNDREDS OF PROPERTIES
HAVE BEEN APPLIED TO TAKE ONE
AND THIS NEXT THAT ALSO IT
MAKES ME WONDER IF THERE'S ANY
POINT IN ANYONE PARTICIPATING
IN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVIEW THAT'S SUPPOSEDLY
UNDERWAY RIGHT NOW WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THIS THIS POSTCARD HERE
,IT SAYS WE'RE GOING TO EXPAND
HOUSING CHOICES AND THAT'S WHAT
TOOK WHAT IS OSTENSIBLY
SUPPOSED TO DO.
WE'RE GOING TO PROVE
CONNECTIONS AGAIN.
THAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE A TICK.
ONE THING AND WE'RE GOING TO
GIVE JOB OPPORTUNITIES AND I
APPRECIATE COUNCILMAN BRIDGES
SAID ABOUT THE ARTISTS IN THIS
TOWN BECAUSE WE BEGGING FOR THE
ROBERTSON SLASH PROPOSAL TO
HAVE THEM LIVE WORK LOFT KIND
OF SITUATION GOING IN THERE.
BUT IT'S NOT IT'S JUST GARBAGE.
AND SO MY CONCERN IS THAT WE'RE
UNDERTAKING MASSIVE CITY
INITIATED REZONING AND THE EVE
SUPPOSEDLY HAVING A ROBUST
PUBLIC CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT
EXACTLY WHAT TO DO WITH ALL THE
PARTIES IN THE CITY AND AT SOME
POINT WE'RE GOING TO GET A
BUSINESS OWNER WHO'S UNHAPPY
WITH HOW THAT'S GOING TO GO.
A HANDFUL OF RESIDENTS WHO ARE
UNHAPPY WITH WHAT'S HAPPENING
OUTSIDE OF THIS PROCESS AND
WE'RE SETTING OURSELVES UP FOR
ANOTHER LAWSUIT AND I KNOW YOU
GUYS GOT RID OF THE INSURANCE
BOARD AND SOME OTHER THINGS SO
NOT EVERYBODY GETS TO HEAR
ABOUT THAT.
BUT THE CITY GETS SUED A LOT
AND I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT THIS
IS GOING TO COME BACK AND BITE
US IN THE LAWSUIT ARENA AND SO
TAKE THOSE THINGS INTO
CONSIDERATION AS YOU PRESS
FORWARD WITH YOUR MASSIVE
REZONING PRIOR TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW.
THANK YOU.
THERE ANYONE ELSE AND WHO ELSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC AND I'M
JUST CONVINCED YOU HAVE A
COMMENT.
HI, THIS IS ADAM MISCAVIGE FROM
THE FOURTH WARD NEAR THE T C
ONE W STADIUM CORRIDOR WHERE
THE WALL WAS INTENDED OR
ANYTHING OVER HERE AND I'M JUST
I'M SO HAPPY TO SEE THIS
HAPPENING IN OTHER PLACES
AROUND TOWN AND I HOPE THAT YOU
PASS IT TONIGHT AND I HOPE TO
SEE THE WALL CORRIDOR COME UP
PRETTY QUICKLY SO WE CAN SEE
THAT GO THROUGH AS WELL.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK
IS REALLY GOOD ABOUT YOU SEE
ONE AS FAR AS THE CONCERNED
WITH TALL BUILDINGS IS THE
WAY
THAT IT STEPS DOWN AS YOU
APPROACH RESIDENTIAL AREAS,
IT'S DESIGN SO THAT TALL
BUILDINGS CAN'T BE CLOSE TO TO
THOSE RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
SO THAT'S THAT'S BAKED RIGHT
INTO THE ZONING.
I THINK THAT THAT ADDRESSES
THAT CONCERN AND ALSO I I
BELIEVE AS FAR AS THE THE
GENTLEMAN FROM CONCORDIA
COLLEGE WAS SAYING, I THINK
THAT IF THEY'RE ADJACENT TO ATC
ONE CORRIDOR IT SHOULD BE
PRETTY THAT THEY CAN THEY CAN
APPLY FOR THEIR OWN LIKE OWNER
INITIATED REZONING.
I THINK THERE'S A WAY TO
PETITION FOR THAT AND I THINK
THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS A.S.
ONE IF YOU'RE ADJACENT TO DC
ONE YOU CAN REQUEST A
RESOUNDING DC ONE.
SO THAT MIGHT BE SOMETHING TO
LOOK INTO.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
ALEX FLYING IN FROM FAIRMONT
AVENUE JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT
THAT THE SHADOW'S SO-CALLED
ISSUES YOU SEEM TO BE WAY
OVERBLOWN SINCE THE THE JUST A
RESIDENTIAL LOCATION ACTUALLY
CHANGES THE HEIGHT OF THE
BUILDING AND THIS AREA WOULD OR
MID RISE BUILDINGS WHICH IS I
WOULD LOVE TO SEE SOME ACTUAL
HIGH RISES THERE AS IT IS THEY
DON'T AND I I JUST CAN'T SEE A
WAY THAT THERE WOULD BE ANY
APPRECIABLE AMOUNT OF SHADOW
BUILDINGS GOING A PROPERTY.
I WISHED THAT A LARGER PORTION
OF THEM WERE BEING AS ONE THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP AT THIS
TIME
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARINGS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING
TO AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTIONS FIVE GOT ONE FIVE FIVE
ONE SIX AND FIVE THREE SEVEN
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY BENTON
HARBOR BANQUET ALL PERSONAL
SERVICES AND VETERINARY USES.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IT ONE ONE WENT
ON THESE FIRST I THINK FOLKS
NEED TO KNOW THAT SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT HAVE HAPPENED IN
THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS HAVE
BEEN INITIATED NOT BY THIS BODY
BY COUNCIL BUT BY BUSINESS
PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY WHO
HAVE TIES TO THIS COUNCIL IN AT
LEAST IN AS MUCH AS THEY HAVE
MADE LARGE DONATIONS TO
CAMPAIGNS OF THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS IN THE MAYOR, THIS HAS
HAPPENED TO BE ONE OF THOSE
THIS WAS WRITTEN SPECIFICALLY
TO OPEN UP SOME USES IN OXFORD
PROPERTIES.
OK, WELL WE KNOW THAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN.
WHAT I THINK THE PUBLIC SHOULD
KNOW ALSO ABOUT THESE SECONDARY
AND ALTERNATIVE USES IS THAT
MANY OF THESE EXIST ALREADY.
SO WHEN WE SEE ONE ZONING WE
SAY WE MAY NEED IT BECAUSE SO
WE KNOW THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF OFFICE SPACE.
IT'S NOT BEING USED ANYMORE
BECAUSE FOLKS ARE WORKING FROM
HOME AS AN EXAMPLE AND THEY'RE
EVEN ENCOURAGED TO WORK FROM
HOME.
AND SO WE KNOW THAT OFFICE IS
ALLOWED USE IN OFFICES
RESIDENTIAL.
RIGHT.
SO WITHOUT THIS BODY DOING
ANYTHING TO ENRICH DEVELOPMENT
THEY YOU COULD SIMPLY BE
ENCOURAGING ALTERNATIVE USES.
NOW IT'S THESE HAVE TO BE MADE
BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T IN THERE
BEFORE I GET THAT.
BUT THERE ARE MANY, MANY, MANY
DARE I SAY HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS SQUARE FEET
OF OFFICE IN THIS COMMUNITY
THAT ARE CURRENTLY
UNDERUTILIZED OR NOT UTILIZED
THAT COULD EASILY BE
INCENTIVIZED TO BECOME
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND SO WELL
THIS IS A GOOD THING AND VERY
SPECIFIC AND CAME FOR A VERY
SPECIFIC REASON.
I'M SURE THERE'S SOME KIND
OF PLAN FOR IT JUST LIKE THERE
WAS A PLAN TO THE RESTAURANT
ONE THAT WENT IN IN THE SEVEN
SEVEN SEVEN BUILDING PREVIOUSLY
BEHEST OF OXFORD.
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE PLANNING
REACH OUT TO BUSINESS OWNERS
PROACTIVELY INSTEAD OF THESE
PROACTIVE KIND OF CITY
INITIATED REZONING AND SAY, YOU
KNOW, THERE'S OTHER THINGS YOU
CAN DO WITH YOUR BUILDINGS AND
WE DID AN ACTUAL STUDY SO
HOPEFULLY THAT'LL BE PART OF A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REVIEW.
NOW WHEN I WAS ON COUNCIL I WAS
TRYING TO THERE WAS A COMMENT
EARLIER AND I COULDN'T WRAP MY
HEAD AROUND IT BECAUSE I KNOW
THAT I SAT THERE AT THAT TABLE
WITH FOLKS WHO HAD GOOD PAYING
SERIOUS JOBS.
CHRIS, A LAWYER HE HAD A GOOD
JOB.
I DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW WHAT
COUNCILWOMAN I WAS SAYING
THERE'S PEOPLE WHO HAD JOBS.
SHE GOT A JOB SEARCH.
SHE WAS SHE WAS CO-OWNER OF AN
AD AGENCY AND HER PARTNER SARAH
AT GUNPOINT, SIR, ON THE
SUBJECT SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT
SHE'S TALKING ABOUT.
SIR, PLEASE REMAIN ON THE
SUBJECT OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT IS TO SAY LET'S NOT ALLOW
MISOGYNISTIC AD AGENCIES IN
OFFICE.
WHY WOULD YOU EXPECT THEM TO
FOLLOW THE SARAH NELSON HOUSE?
YOU'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T HAVE ANY TIMELINE FOR
THIS HEARING
.
SO YOU KNOW, IN THIS PUBLIC
HEARINGS CLOSED PUBLIC NUMBER
THREE IN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE THAT ONE SIXTH
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF INNER HARBOR PERSONAL SCALE
ACCESS.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
HOW WITH THE PHONE NUMBER THREE
ENDING IN THREE TO SIX OH I'VE
HAD YOUR WORD THREE LET'S PUT
THREE SECONDS TO ALTIG, MAYBE A
DEEP BREATH IN YOUR STOMACH
EXHALE AND GET RID OF WHATEVER
THAT WAS A FEW AGO.
PEOPLE WON'T TALK ABOUT THIS
BECAUSE THERE'S A COUPLE
OF ISSUES REALLY IMPORTANT AND
I'M A BIG SUPPORTER OF THIS
CHANGE FROM A TECHNICAL
PERSPECTIVE CERTAINLY NOT BE
AVAILABLE FROM THE FRONT FROM
THE BACK HERE OF A PARTICULAR
HOUSE TO BE AVAILABLE FROM THE
FRONT YARD TO THE TREES
BUILDINGS AND MY HOMES AND
STRUCTURES IN GENERAL WE USED
FOR THOUSANDS OF YEARS IS
REALLY GREAT FOR THE GOLDEN
ACCORDING TO A JOHN PAUL TALKS
FOR THOUSANDS OF YEARS AND TO
BUILD HOMES AND BUILDINGS SUCH
THAT IT WOULD GET THE MAXIMUM
SUNLIGHT AND MAXIMUM ENERGY USE
THAT'S ALSO THE FRONT YARD IS
THE WAY THAT THERE'S A
POSSIBILITY FOR GETTING INGRESS
INTO THE CABLING FROM THE SOLAR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
NOW FROM THE SOUTHERN
PERSPECTIVE TO THE FRONT YARD
MAKES IT MORE VISIBLE AND THAT
IS GOING TO INSPIRE MORE
HOMEOWNERS TO MAKE IT
PRESENTABLE AND TURN ALSO TO
START INSPIRED BY THOSE WHO
MANUFACTURE SOLAR
INFRASTRUCTURE FOCUSING ON THE
SPECS.
SO WHEN FEEDBACK OR WHEN IT'S
WHEN PEOPLE SEE THESE LARGE
SOLAR INSTALLATIONS OR OUTSIDE
OF TOWN OR USING SOLAR PANELS
ON HOMES OBVIOUSLY POTENTIALLY
A LOT OF WATER PUBLIC OPINION
CAN HELP INSPIRE AND AND THAT
IS ONE THEY LOOK AT THEIR YARD
GOOD SOLUTIONS AND THERE ARE
EXAMPLES OF USING SOLAR
INFRASTRUCTURALLY INTEGRATED
WOULD BE ATTRACTIVE RIGHT
SOLUTION FOR GARDENING IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND USING THAT AS A
THE STRUCTURE OF THE SOLAR
INSTALLATION AS A TRUST COULD
BE A REALLY GOOD 30 DAYS.
I THINK OF IT AS BEING
INCLUSIVE THERE NOW BACK IN THE
UBIQUITOUS THE RESULTS OF THE
GRID AND WE'RE GOING TO GET
MORE STORMS AND ALSO INTEGRATE
CERTAINLY SAFETY OF OUR FOOD
AND THE HEALTH OF OUR SOIL.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
YOUR
SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ADAM DISCOVERED DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YEAH, THIS IS ADAM MISCAVIGE
GOT IN THE FOURTH QUARTER.
I REALLY SUPPORT THIS.
I THINK THIS IS GREAT.
I WAS I WAS KIND OF SAD WHEN WE
BANNED THESE AND DECIDED THAT
WE DIDN'T WANT THEM PROBABLY
UGLY OR WHATEVER.
I ACTUALLY THINK SOLAR PANELS
ARE PRETTY COOL AND I AM
EXCITED TO SEE THEM SPROUTING
UP IN PEOPLE'S FRONT YARDS.
YOU KNOW, A LOT OF A LOT
OF PEOPLE DON'T EVEN REALLY USE
THEIR FRONT YARD FOR ANYTHING.
IT'S JUST KIND OF EMPTY SPACE
THAT THEY THEY MOW THE GRASS
EVERY FEW DAYS AND IT'S ABOUT
IT.
SO YOU KNOW, I I THINK THIS
WILL BE PRETTY COOL TO SEE
HAPPENING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE ON THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLIC.
NO FOR MORE TWO MEN SECTION
NINE ONE FIVE EIGHT OR CHAPTER
ONE ONE TWO NONDISCRIMINATION
TITLE NINE OF THE CODE THE
STEPHEN ARBOR TO PROHIBIT CITY
CONTRACTOR INQUIRY INTO JOB
APPLICANTS CRIMINAL HISTORY
UNTIL AFTER CONDITIONAL OFFER
OF EMPLOYMENT AND REQUIRES CITY
CONTRACTORS TO DOCUMENT EFFORTS
TO EMPLOY LOCAL PERSONS FOR
CITY CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS IS
ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
I THINK THIS IS AN EXCELLENT
IDEA BUT I THINK PEOPLE'S PAST
BEHAVIOR IS A THING OF THE PAST
AT SOME POINT.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE GETTING A JOB
YOU SHOULD BE IN CHARACTER.
SO I HOPE THIS IS APPROVED AND
ABLE TO SEE KNOWS ABOUT THE
OTHER PUBLIC HEARINGS I WATCHED
THE DESCRIPTION ON THE PUBLIC
HEARING WOULD ACTUALLY INDICATE
WHAT THE CONTENT OF THE HEARING
ABOUT THE NUMBERS AND SO ON THE
CODE THAT'S NOT REALLY
DESCRIPTIVE TO THE PUBLIC ABOUT
WHAT A HEARING IS ABOUT WOULD
BE IMPROVE THIS PROCESS IF THIS
PARTICULAR LEGAL DETAILS YOU
ADD THIS IS ABOUT HOUSING IN
THE PUBLIC AREA OR WHATEVER IT
IS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
HOUSE YOU'D LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON THE
LINE FOR THIS HEARING
.
SEE, NO.
IN THIS PUBLIC HEARINGS CLOSED
WE HAVE THE FOREST THIS SPECIAL
SESSION MINUTES OF JANUARY FIVE
AND THE REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF JANUARY ELEVEN
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR MOVE BY
MOTION TO APPROVE THESE MINUTES
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN FOR WATSON
SELECTED BY COUNCIL MEMBER AT
DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
ON FABER POST.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED.
WE WANT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE REZONING
OF FORTY FIVE PARCELS IN THE
PLYMOUTH ROAD AREA TO TCE ONE
TRANSIT CORRIDOR DISTRICT CITY
INITIATED REZONING MOVED BY
COUNCIL BRITISH SECONDARY BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
THIS ORDINANCE WOULD ZONE ALONG
SORRY INCIDENT TAKE ONE ZONING
ALONG PLYMOUTH ROAD.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND
THAT THE DISTRICT IS DIVIDED
INTO THREE SUB AREAS.
THE EASTERN SUB AREA EXTENDS
ALONG PLYMOUTH FROM US TWENTY
THREE A COMMONWEALTH BOULEVARD
THE CENTRAL AREA BEGINS JUST
WEST OF GEORGETOWN BOULEVARD
AND STOPS JUST EAST OF TREVOR
WOULD DRIVE AND THEN THE THE
WEST SUBAREA COMPRISES THE
COURTYARD SHOPPING MALL IN
PLYMOUTH.
IT IS NOT THIS DOES NOT EXTEND
ALL THE WAY TO IT DOESN'T
EXTEND ALL THE WAY TO THE
BROADWAY BRIDGE BY ANY MEANS.
A WAY TO THINK ABOUT TRANSIT
CORRIDOR ZONING IS THAT IT'S
DESIGNED TO STIMULATE
DEVELOPMENT, REPURPOSE OUR
PARKING LOTS AND HAVE THEM
STORE HOUSE PEOPLE INSTEAD
OF STORING CARS AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT CAN BE DONE
WITHOUT DEMOLISHING EXISTING
BUILDINGS.
YOU COULD DEMOLISH THEM BUT YOU
DON'T NEED TO NOW TO DATE TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY EIGHT PARCELS
COVERING ABOUT FOUR HUNDRED
ACRES HAVE BEEN TO TAKE ONE
PRETTY BIG ACCOMPLISHMENT THIS
PROPOSED REZONING WOULD ADD
FORTY FIVE MORE PARCELS OVER
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY SEVEN
ACRES.
I DON'T I I THINK I'LL ADDRESS
I'M SORRY I'M JUST THINKING ON
MY FEET WHICH IS ALWAYS DANGER
BUT I THINK I'LL ADDRESS THE
CONCERNS RAISED ABOUT SHADING
THIS THE ZONE IS WAS CRAFTED TO
MINIMIZE SHADING THERE IS A
FIFTY FIVE FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT
WITHIN 80 FEET OF A RESIDENTIAL
ZONING DISTRICT.
THERE IS A SEVENTY FIVE FOOT
HEIGHT DISTRICT HEIGHT LIMIT IF
YOU ARE LOCATED BETWEEN 80 AND
300 FEET OF A RESIDENTIAL ZONE
AND THERE'S ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FOOT LIMIT IF YOU'RE
MORE THAN 300 OF A RESIDENTIAL
ZONE UM I DON'T KNOW IF THE
PERSON WHO SPOKE EARLIER WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT THE HEIGHT
EXCEPTIONS THAT ALLOW YOU TO GO
30 PERCENT OVER THAT IF YOU
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR
IF THEY WERE JUST CONCERNED
ABOUT THE SHADE THAT WOULD BE
CAST FROM TALL BUILDINGS.
BUT AGAIN, IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO REALIZE THAT THIS
ZONING DISTRICT WAS NOT CRAFTED
AS A ONE SIZE FITS ALL.
IT WAS CRAFTED AS AN ADJUSTABLE
CONTEXTUAL RESPONSIVE ZONING
DISTRICT THAT THAT WILL BY NO
MEANS PRODUCE THE EXACT SAME
RESULT EVERY PLACE THAT IT IS
IMPLEMENTED.
UM, I FEEL AS THOUGH WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THIS A LOT AND I
DON'T THINK THAT THERE WERE
OTHER QUESTIONS RAISED THAT I
CAN ADDRESS BUT I THINK OTHERS
MAY HAVE THINGS TO ADD.
>> SO THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN
WATSON, THANK YOU.
YEAH, I THINK IT'S A LITTLE BIT
HARD TO TO ILLUSTRATE THE
CONCERNS WITHOUT SHOWING THE
SPECIAL MASTER PLANNING DID
SHOW DURING OUR OCTOBER PUBLIC
INFORMATION SESSION.
BUT I THINK THE THE IMPORTANT
THING TO NOTE IS THAT THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHTS ARE IN LINE
WITH THE CURRENT ZONING WHEN
NEAR RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICTS AND THEN WHEN IT'S
FURTHER OUT THE HEIGHTS ARE
ALLOWED TO BE THE HEIGHT TO
ALLOW IT TO BE GREATER THAN THE
COMMERCIAL HOTEL DISTRICTS.
BUT THEY'RE ACTUALLY LESS THAN
THE OFFICE DISTRICT WHICH
ACTUALLY HAS NO LIMIT RIGHT
NOW.
SO SOME OF THE PROPERTIES THAT
SOME OF THE PROPERTIES ARE
BEING ZONED ARE CURRENTLY OH
AND BOTH WHICH THE DISTRICT
ALLOWS HOUSING AND DOESN'T HAVE
A HEIGHT LIMIT NOW.
SO I THINK THAT THAT KIND
OF THAT CAN HELP ALLEVIATE SOME
OF THE CONCERNS WHEN PEOPLE
TALK ABOUT THE THREE HUNDRED
FOOT HEIGHT LIMIT I.E. THE
POSSIBILITY OF 30 STORY
BUILDINGS, THAT'S ONLY POSSIBLE
DIRECTLY NEXT TO THE US.
TWENTY THREE INTERCHANGE WHERE
THERE'S ALREADY LIKE SOME
SUCCESSFUL HOTELS THERE WHEN
YOU'RE LOOKING AREA AREAS IN
THE ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FOOT
RANGE TO GIVE PEOPLE AN IDEA
IT'S LIKE THE CENTER THE CENTER
OF THE BUILDING WOULD HAVE TO
BE BUILT IN THE CENTER OF THE
KROGER PARKING LOT TO HIT THAT
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOOT
HEIGHT SO INDIVIDUAL PROJECTS
WOULD STILL HAVE SHADE STUDIES
DONE.
THEY WOULD STILL PRESENT YOU
KNOW, PUBLIC HEARINGS ON TO
DISCUSS THE DIMENSIONS OF THOSE
PROJECTS.
BUT THE THE OTHERS REALLY DO
SCALE DOWN AS PEOPLE ARE
APPROACHING AS AS THE BUILDINGS
ARE APPROACHING THE EDGES
OF RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
ROSOL SO I'D LIKE I'D LIKE TO
DESCRIBE TO YOU ONE OR I THINK
CONCORDIA'S REPRESENTATIVE HAS
CALLED HIS TRANSIT ORIENTED
DEVELOPMENT AS BEING A WAY TO
RESPOND TO OUTSIDE FORCES, NOT
EVIL DEVELOPERS OR INFLUENCE
COUNCIL AND ELECTED WHICH IF
YOU DO TRULY FEEL THAT WAY THEN
PLEASE CONTACT THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL AND ACTUALLY PUT IN A
REAL COMPLAINT AND GET THE
INVESTIGATED BUT ACTUALLY A
RESPONSIVENESS TO OUTSIDE
FORCES SUCH AS POOR LAND USE.
WE ARE TRYING TO PREVENT MORE
MINIMAL WE ARE TRYING TO
PREVENT ONE USE PROJECTS.
WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO RESPOND
TO IS THE NEED FOR MORE
CREATIVE USE RIGHT.
WHICH WOULD BE INFILL PROJECTS
WHICH WOULD BE HOUSING WHICH
WOULD BE ADDRESSING TRAFFIC
ALONG A VERY, VERY BUSY
CORRIDOR.
WE CAN'T MAKE USE THEM LESS
POPULAR ESPECIALLY AFTER WHAT
HAPPENED THE BEGINNING THIS
YEAR.
RIGHT.
WE CAN'T HAVE THEM EMPLOY FEWER
PEOPLE.
WE CAN'T STOP THEM FROM
BUILDING A THIRD BUILDING ON
THE MEDICAL CAMPUS AND THEY ARE
ALREADY ON THEIR WAY WITH A
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
WITH CAMPUS PLAN TWENTY FIFTY.
SO WHAT WE ARE PROPOSING HERE
IS TRYING TO BE PART OF THE
FUTURE VISIONING OF ANN ARBOR
CATCHING UP TO U OF M, CATCHING
UP TO THE DEMAND AND CATCHING
UP TO ANOTHER LOCAL ENTITY
WHICH WOULD BE THE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS THAT BILLION DOLLAR
BOND THAT ANN WILDLY SUPPORTED
IN TWENTY TWENTY IS IS ALREADY
BEING PUT IN USE.
SO THOSE SCHOOLS BEING REBUILT
IN TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AND
TWENTY TWENTY SEVEN ARE ALONG
THAT CORRIDOR.
THAT'S KING SCHOOL LOGAN SCHOOL
THURSTON LOGAN IS NO LONGER
GOING TO BE AN ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL BUT A PRESCHOOL AND
EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE CENTER
BECAUSE EVEN THE SCHOOLS ARE
LOOKING FOR FUTURE AND TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO MEET
ONGOING EARLY CHILDHOOD HEALTH
CARE DEMANDS FOR YOUNG FAMILIES
IN THIS AREA.
IF WE CAN BUILD HOUSING ALONG
HERE WHERE IT'S A WALKABLE TO
SCHOOLS TO TRANSIT, TO
SHOPPING, TO BUSINESSES THIS IS
A BONUS FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
IT IS NOT INVISION BEING A
COMMUNITY WITHIN THE SHADOWS.
IT'S BRINGING A COMMUNITY OUT
TO THE FUTURE.
SO IF YOU LOOK AT KIPP AS
YOU'LL SEE ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF WHAT YOU HAVE AND IS
PLANNING WOULD BE A CONFERENCE
CENTER, A HOTEL, MULTIUSE
HOUSING PARKS WALKABLE PARKS
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC YOU HAVE
THEM THERE.
WE NEED TO CATCH UP FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
I JUST WANTED TO RESPOND TO THE
REQUEST FROM THE REPRESENTATIVE
FROM CONCORDIA REGARDING THE
ADDITION OF THAT PARCEL AND I
THINK IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU'VE
ALREADY DONE OUTREACH TO
PLANNING STAFF.
PERHAPS ONE THING I'M NOT SURE
IF THEY BUT YOU KNOW OR NOT
WHEN THIS CAME TO US FOR FIRST
READING THERE WERE ADDITIONAL
EIGHT PARCELS THAT WERE IN THAT
WE ACTUALLY HAD TO PULL OUT AT
FIRST READING BECAUSE THEY
WEREN'T PROPERLY NOTICED.
AND SO WE ARE PLANNING TO COME
BACK AND ACTUALLY DO AN
ADDITIONAL REZONING ONCE THOSE
PARCELS HAVE BEEN PROPERLY
NOTICED AND SO THERE MIGHT BE
AN OPPORTUNITY.
I DON'T WANT TO MAKE ANY
PROMISES THERE.
WE ACTUALLY DO HAVE A PHASE TWO
OF THIS ANTICIPATED.
SO THOSE I ANTICIPATE THAT CUTS
OR TWO ISSUES THE LIAISON TO
PLANNING COMMISSION AND
PLANNING STAFF WILL BE ABLE TO
FOLLOW UP REGARDING THAT PARCEL
FURTHER DISCUSSION WHILE I I AM
CERTAINLY EXCITED ABOUT THE
PRODUCTS, THE PROGRESS THAT WE
ARE ACCOMPLISHING WITH RESPECT
TO DC ZONING, WE WE ALL KNOW
THAT WE HAVE A AN AFFORDABILITY
CRISIS HOUSING CRISIS HERE IN
ANN ARBOR.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT SUPPLY AND
DEMAND IS REAL AND SO WE ARE
NOT GOING TO DO WHAT WE CAN TO
REDUCE DEMAND IN OUR CITY.
WE NEED TO INCREASE SUPPLY.
WE'RE NOT MAKING A WORSE CITY.
WE'RE WORKING ON MAKING A
BETTER CITY AND WE ALSO KNOW
THAT PEOPLE WHO WORK IN ANN
ARBOR OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO LIVE
IN ANN ARBOR.
THAT IS WHAT WE'RE LOOKING TO
ACCOMPLISH BY BY ONE ZONING TO
ONE ZONING.
WELL, IN IT'S IDEAL AND NOT THE
ONE ENVISIONED FORM ENABLE
PROPERTY OWNERS TO BUILD MIXED
USE DENSE DEVELOPMENTS WHICH
INVOLVE BOTH COMMERCE AND
HOUSING ENABLING PEOPLE TO LIVE
ON TRANSIT CORRIDORS AND BE
ABLE TO GET IN AND OUT
OF DOWNTOWN MORE EASILY WITHOUT
A CAR TO MAKE A BUILD A
WALKABLE VIABLE MANY
NEIGHBORHOODS ALONG THE WAY
HOPEFULLY INTEGRATING WITH WITH
OTHER AND CURRENTLY EXISTING
PROXIMATE NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS IS AN EXCITING STEP THAT
WE'RE TAKING ONE IN THIS AREA
AND I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO ITS
EXPANSION IN THE IN THE SHORT
TERM AS COUNCILMAN BRIGGS
IDENTIFIED AND TWO OTHER AREAS
OF THE OTHER TRANSIT CORRIDORS
WITHIN THE CITY AS WELL FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED BY TWO AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION FIVE THAT ONE
FIVE AND FIVE TWO ONE SIX FIVE
TWO THREE SEVEN EIGHT HUNDRED
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE CODE THE
CITY THEN OUR BANQUET HALL
PERSONAL SERVICES AND
VETERINARY USES BY COUNCIL AND
THE SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSONIA DISCUSSION PLEASE HEAD
TO THE BRITISH.
I'LL BE VERY BRIEF.
THIS IS THE BIGGEST THING WE'RE
DOING TONIGHT AND I JUST WANT
TO SAY THAT THIS CHANGE MAKES
SEVERAL MOSTLY MINOR
ALTERATIONS TO THE CITY ZONING
CODE TO FACILITATE ADAPTIVE
REUSE OF OFFICE BUILDINGS ALL
OVER THE CITY AND THE STAFF
REPORT NOTES THAT THAT OFFICE
HAS BEEN STEADILY EVOLVING INTO
A COMPLETE MIXED USE DISTRICT
AND OUR ZONING CHANGES WILL
HELP THE UDC KEEP UP WITH THAT
EVOLUTION.
YES, THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
OF THESE CHANGES ADDS BANQUET
HALL TO OUR ZONING CODE BUT IT
ALSO ALLOWS ADDITIONAL
AMENDMENTS TO THE OFFICE
DISTRICT TO ALIGN ITS PERMITTED
USERS USES WITH THOSE OF MIXED
USES GENERALLY AND THOSE
INCLUDE ALLOWING FRATERNITIES
AND SORORITIES, STUDENT
CO-OPERATIVE HOUSING CLUB
HEADQUARTERS, COMMUNITY
CENTERS, RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLIES,
PRIVATE K THROUGH 12 SCHOOLS,
AN INDOOR RECREATION AS PRIMARY
RATHER THAN SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USES IN THE OFFICE DISTRICT AND
SO INDEED IT WOULD ALLOW
REPURPOSING TO RESIDENTIAL USE
IN OFFICES SO THERE'S ALSO A
GREAT DISTINCTION BETWEEN
VETERINARY HOSPITALS AND HUMAN
HOSPITALS JUST TO MAKE SURE WE
DON'T GET THEM CONFUSED.
I URGE YOU ALL TO VOTE FOR IT
FOR DISCUSSION WELFARE POSED
IT'S APPROVED BY THREE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
THAT ONE SIXTH OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED VOTE CODE OF TITLE
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE SEVEN
PERSONAL SCALE S YES MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B THREE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
WE HAD A CALLER WHO DID A GREAT
JOB PRESENTING THIS ORDINANCE
AND SO I WILL JUST SAY THAT
SIMILAR PERSONAL SCALE SOLAR
ENERGY SYSTEMS ARE CURRENTLY
PROHIBITED ANYWHERE IN FRONT
OF THE BUILDING WHICH MEANS
THAT THE CITY CURRENTLY PLACES
MORE RESTRICTION ON SOLAR
ENERGY SYSTEMS THAN IT DOES
UNNECCESSARY STRUCTURES IN
GENERAL WHICH JUST DOESN'T MAKE
SENSE.
AND I WANT TO UNDERSCORE THE
APPREC THE URGENCY AND
SIGNIFICANCE OF THIS CHANGE
BECAUSE IF YOU THINK BACK TO
OUR ENERGY OPTIONS REPORT, WE
LEARNED ABOUT A GAP BETWEEN THE
AMOUNT OF CLEAN ENERGY THAT CAN
BE GENERATED IN AN HOUR AND THE
AMOUNT OF ENERGY THAT WE ARE
CONSUMING AND WILL CONSUME EVEN
MORE OF SOON OPENING UP MORE
PARTS OF OUR RESIDENTIAL
PARCEL'S ENERGY GENERATION IS
ONE WAY TO CLOSE THAT GAP.
SO HURRAY FOR THIS COUNCIL
ROSOL I LIKE TO RECOGNIZE
FORMER PLANNING COMMISSIONER
SCOTT TRUDEAU AND HIS CONSTANT
COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE CITY NOT
BEING NOT ALLOWING US AND I
HOPE HE'S HAPPY ONE BUT TWO I
THINK THIS IS A REALLY GOOD
TIME FOR US TO CONSIDER HOW WE
USE OUR FRONT YARDS ESPECIALLY
AFTER EVERY STORM AND EVERY DDE
CALL THAT WE HAVE AND TALKING
ABOUT POWER AND SUSTAINABILITY
AND RELIANCE.
I THINK ALL OF OUR RESIDENTS
ARE LOOKING FOR ALTERNATIVES
AND IF IT'S IN THEIR FRONT THEN
SO BE IT.
DISCUSSION FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED BEFORE OR AN
INSTRUMENTAL SECTION NINE NINE
FIVE ONE EIGHT IF CHAPTER ONE
NONDISCRIMINATION TITLE NINE
ARE THE CODE OF THE CITY IN
HARBOR TO PROHIBIT CITY
CONTRACTORS INQUIRY INTO JOB
APPLICANTS CRIMINAL HISTORY
UNTIL AFTER A CONDITIONAL OFFER
OF EMPLOYMENT AND REQUIRE CITY
CONTRACTORS TO DOCUMENT EFFORTS
TO EMPLOY LOCAL PERSONS FOR
CITY CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN 016 BY PRIOR
DISCUSSION PLEASE HAVE BEFORE
AUGUST
.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'M GOING TO BE JUST BRIEF BUT
SO AGAIN THIS PROPOSED
ORDINANCE WOULD REQUIRE THAT
OUR CONTRACTORS WORKING WORKING
ON BEHALF OF THE CITY DO THE
SAME WHEN HIRING FUTURE
EMPLOYEES WORKING ON A CONTRACT
ON BEHALF OF THE CITY AND THAT
PRACTICES TO NOT CONDUCT A
CRIMINAL BACKGROUND UNTIL A
CONTINGENT JOB OFFER IS MADE OR
THE EMPLOYER HAS HAS A CHANCE
TO EVALUATE A CANDIDATE FOR A
JOB BASED ON THE QUALIFICATIONS
ALONE.
THIS WOULD APPLY ONLY TO FUTURE
CONTRACTS IN FUTURE HIRES
OF CONTRACTORS.
IT APPLIES ONLY TO THOSE
EMPLOYEES PERFORMING WORK UNDER
A CONTRACTS WITH THE CITY AND
IT APPLIES ONLY TO CONTRACTS
OVER TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS RELATED TO GOODS,
SERVICES AND CONSTRUCTION IN
TERMS OF ENFORCEMENT THIS WILL
BE ENFORCED ALONG WITH THE REST
OF THE NONDISCRIMINATION
ORDINANCE WE HAVE A CLAUSE CITY
CONTRACTS OVER TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS CONTAIN A
CLAUSE STATING THE CONTRACTOR
AGREES TO ABIDE BY ALL
PROVISIONS OF IDEO WHICH WILL
NOW INCLUDE THIS IN TERMS
OF ENFORCEMENT WE WILL HAVE THE
HELP OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND I BELIEVE YOUR
PROCUREMENT I'M SORRY
PROCUREMENT IS WORKING ON A
LETTER THAT WILL GO IN THE
FEEDBACK AND AS WELL AND I HOPE
YOU VOTE FOR IT TONIGHT AS A
WRITER.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI HADWIN FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD TO US.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SUPPORT
IT.
I JUST WANTED TO READ SOMETHING
BRIEFLY FROM THE ACLU WEBSITE.
THE ACLU HAS LONG BEEN A
PROPONENT OF BAN THE BOX
INITIATIVES LIKE THIS ONE
STEADY EMPLOYMENT IS CRITICAL
TO A PERSON'S SUCCESSFUL
REENTRY TO SOCIETY AFTER
INCARCERATION AND THE SINGLE
MOST IMPORTANT PREDICTOR
OF WHETHER OR NOT A PERSON WILL
RETURN TO PRISON.
HOWEVER.
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
OF FORMERLY INCARCERATED PEOPLE
ARE UNEMPLOYED A YEAR AFTER
RELEASE BECAUSE OF EMPLOYER
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST PEOPLE
WITH CRIMINAL RECORDS FOR BLACK
PEOPLE IN PARTICULAR, A
CRIMINAL RECORD MEANS NOT
GETTING A JOB INTERVIEW FORTY
PERCENT MORE OFTEN THAN WHITE
PEOPLE WITH SIMILAR HISTORIES
AND WITH SIX HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND AMERICANS RETURNING TO
COMMUNITIES FROM PRISON EACH
YEAR IT IS INCUMBENT UPON US TO
WORK WITH EMPLOYERS TO
ELIMINATE BARRIERS TO JOBS.
THIS IS SO NECESSARY I'M REALLY
EXCITED TO SUPPORT THIS.
I'M ALSO SO SUPPORTIVE
OF TAKING THE NEXT STEP WITH
HELPING MAKE SURE THAT CITY
CONTRACTORS ARE REALLY TRYING
TO EMPLOY LOCAL PEOPLE PEOPLE
WHO ARE LIVING IN THE AREA WHO
ARE SUPPORTING LOCAL
BUSINESSES, WHO ARE DRIVING OUR
LOCAL ECONOMY, SENDING THEIR
KIDS TO LOCAL SCHOOLS, PAYING
LOCAL TAXES.
ALL OF THIS THESE ARE THINGS
THAT WE SHOULD BE SUPPORTING
WITH OUR TAX DOLLARS AS A CITY
WHEN WE HIRE CITY CONTRACTORS.
THIS IS A THEME FOR ME
PERSONALLY OF MY SERVICE WHICH
IS TRYING TO ALIGN OUR CITY
PROCUREMENT POLICIES WITH OUR
VALUES AND I'M EXCITED TO VOTE
FOR THIS TONIGHT FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON, I'D LIKE TO THANK
COUNCILMAN BURKHAUSER EDWARD
AND THE CO-SPONSORS.
I'D LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR AS WELL FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I WANT TO I ALSO
WANT TO THANK KATZENBERG GUYS.
HE HAD ONE IN THE OTHER PRIOR
CO-SPONSORS FOR BRINGING
FORWARD THIS RESOLUTION.
IT IS IMPORTANT THAT AS
COUNCILOR BARR INDICATED THAT
WE REDUCED OURS TO EMPLOYMENT
FOR OUR RETURNING COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
IT IS IT IS CRUCIAL THAT WE DO
WHAT WE CAN HERE BY OUR
PARTICIPATION IN THE MARKET IN
THIS WAY IT'S A GOOD THING TO
DO IN THE WAY THAT WE'RE MOVING
FORWARD FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FABER POST IT IS APPROVED
SEE ONE AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE TO ZERO ABOUT
THREE FIVE TWO ZERO FOUR AND
FIVE TO ZERO SIX OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE THE CODE THE
SEVEN ARBER CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFER MOVE BY COUNCIL NO
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SO THE
FIRST THING I WANT TO SAY IS
THAT A CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER IS DISTINCT FROM AND IN
ADDITION TO A SET BACK SO THIS
ORDINANCE WHICH PROPOSES TO
ELIMINATE CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFERS IN SOME INSTANCES DOES
NOT RESULT IN ELIMINATING ALL
SPACE BETWEEN STRUCTURES AND
NEXT THING YOU KNOW IS
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFERS
CAN END UP REQUIRING AS MUCH AS
30 FEET OF SPACE BETWEEN
BUILDINGS IF BOTH BUILDINGS ARE
REQUIRED TO PROVIDE A 15 FOOT
BUFFER.
THIS IS A WASTE OF LAND AT A
TIME WHEN WE ARE TRYING TO MAKE
THE MOST EFFICIENT USE WE CAN
HAVE OPEN LAND.
I SPECIFY THE TWO CHANGES THAT
THIS ORDINANCE WOULD MAKE FIRST
PROPOSAL SAYS THAT WE OUGHT TO
REMOVE THE REQUIREMENT TO
PROVIDE A CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER BETWEEN A BUILDING AND
LAND THAT IS PRINCIPALLY USED
AS RESIDENTIAL.
IT COULD IN OTHER WORDS YOU
COULD HAVE A MIXED USE
STRUCTURE WITH THIS OR
RESTAURANT ON GROUND FLOOR AND
RESIDENTIAL ABOVE AND YOU COULD
HAVE AN OFFICE BUILDING NEXT
DOOR AND WE WOULDN'T NEED TO
HAVE A CONFLICTING USE BUFFER
THERE.
THE PROPOSAL ALSO CALLS ON US
TO REMOVE THE REQUIREMENT TO
BUFFER BETWEEN MULTIPLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
AND OTHER RESIDENTIAL ZONES AND
RESIDENTIAL USES.
I JUST WANT TO UNDERSCORE
SOMETHING HERE.
OUR CURRENT RULES REQUIRE
BUFFERS BETWEEN THE SAME KINDS
OF USES SPECIFICALLY BETWEEN
RESIDENTIAL USES THAT HAVE
DIFFERENT ZONING DESIGNATIONS
LIKE OUR FOUR AND OUR THREE.
TO PUT IT SIMPLY, OUR CURRENT
RULES REQUIRE CONFLICTING LAND
USE BUFFERS BETWEEN LIKE LAND
USES CLEARLY THAT IS BOTH A
HEAD SCRATCHER AND A PROBLEM
GIVEN AGAIN THAT WE ARE TRYING
TO MAKE EFFICIENT USE OF OPEN
LAND.
SO THIS IS A CHANGE THAT'S LONG
IN COMING AND A COUPLE OF OTHER
REASONS FOR IT THAT WE CAN TALK
ABOUT MORE NEXT TIME IF THERE'S
YOU KNOW IF THERE'S A LOT
OF COMMENT ON THIS ONE.
BUT FOR NOW I THINK THAT'S
ENOUGH TO PERSUADE YOU THAT
IT'S OK TO ADVANCE THIS TO A
SECOND READING FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
,I APOLOGIZE THIS JUST
TRIGGERED A MEMORY OF A
CONVERSATION I HAD WITH THE
RESIDENT AND ITS STAFF HAPPENS
TO BE ONLINE.
I ACTUALLY DO HAVE A QUESTION
ABOUT THIS JUST ABOUT THIS
ORDINANCE AND THE THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
BETWEEN PARKS AND RESIDENTIAL
.
NO.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
SORRY FOR NOT SUBMITTING THIS
QUESTION EARLIER.
I JUST JUST HAD A RECOLLECTION.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN TO ME JUST THE
IN TERMS OF THE ORDINANCE
CHANGES THAT ARE PRESENT HERE?
IS THERE STILL A REMAINING
BUFFER BETWEEN A SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL AND PARKLAND?
THAT WAS SOMETHING THE RESIDENT
HAD BROUGHT UP TO ME
QUESTIONING SORT THE MERITS
OF OF THAT IN OUR ORDINANCE
PREVIOUSLY AND I JUST THOUGHT
IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL TO GET A
LITTLE BIT OF CLARIFICATION ON
THAT SINCE WE'RE REVISITING
THIS ORDINANCE.
THERE WASN'T THERE WAS NO
REQUIRED BETWEEN SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL AND PARKLAND.
WE REQUIRED BUFFERS.
IT WAS IN THE SAME SENTENCE BUT
BUFFERS ARE REQUIRED WHEN YOU
HAVE TO DIFFERENT ZONING
DISTRICTS BUT WHEN YOU HAVE
DIFFERENT USES TO EXPLAIN THIS
BETTER ADDRESS THAT PARKLAND
ADJACENT TO THE REMAINS
UNCHANGED.
IT DID ACQUIRE NEWSPAPERS
PARTICULARLY THOSE AREAS
REGARDLESS OF ZONING IT
REQUIRES AND IT WOULD BE USED
AROUND THE HOUSE ALL THE WAY
ENCLOSURE REGARDLESS OF WHAT IS
ADJACENT TO THE SAME
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER IS
WHEN YOU BASICALLY HAVE A MIXED
USE.
THIS IS ADJACENT TO A
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
THAT MEANS DIFFERENT DISTRICTS
STILL REQUIRE BUFFER'S REQUIRED
OR WHEN YOU HAD IN RESIDENTIAL
USE ADJACENT TO A RESIDENTIAL
USE REGARDLESS OF ZONING
DESIGNATION AND CHANGE IF YOU
HAPPEN TO HAVE ANY TYPE
OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY THAT
MAKES THE DISTRICT SAY AN
OFFICE DISTRICT OR A LOCAL
COMMERCIAL OR OR DISTRICT, I
DON'T HAVE TO BE A LANGUAGE
BUFFER AGAINST THAT KIND
OF THING THAT WE ARE CHANGING
CURRENTLY.
THAT IS A BUFFER THAT IS
REQUIRED WHEN YOU HAVE
RESIDENTIAL USE AND AN ART
THREE OR FOUR DISTRICT ADJACENT
TO RESIDENTIAL.
SO AND THIS IS WHAT WE'RE
CHANGING.
WE ARE REMOVING WE ARE NOT
REQUIRING RESIDENTIAL TO BUFFER
FROM RESIDENTIAL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I APPRECIATE YOU ANSWERING MY
CURIOSITY QUESTION.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE HIRING OF MARK
THOMPSON AS THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL TAKEN BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL, THANK
YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY SOME
THINGS ABOUT MISS THOMPSON WHO
HAS BEEN PART OF OUR DOWNTOWN
COMMUNITY PRIOR TO HER ROLE AT
THE DDA SHE WAS WITH THE MAIN
STREET AREA ASSOCIATION ALL THE
WAY BACK TO THOUSAND FIVE AND
SO ONE OF THE GOALS AND REALLY
THE HARD WORK THAT HAPPENS IN
THAT ROLE ESPECIALLY MAKING
SURE THAT WE HAVE AND DEVELOP
AND ARE COMMITTED TO A VIBRANT
,THRIVING LOCAL ECONOMY.
SHE HAS EXPERIENCED IN THIS AND
I'VE SEEN HER IN SITUATIONS
WITH BUSINESS OWNERS WHERE YOU
FELT AS THOUGH YOU WOULD COME
OUT OF IT AND NOT REACH
ALIGNMENT.
HER CUSTOMER SERVICE SKILLS
MAKE THAT ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE
WHEN SHE IS TRYING TO NAVIGATE
SOME OF THOSE CONVERSATIONS.
THING I WANT TO SAY ABOUT MORE
IS THAT WHEN WE TALKED ABOUT IT
COUNCIL MEMBER I BROUGHT IT UP
EARLIER JUST MAKING SURE THAT
WE ARE DEMONSTRATING OUR VALUES
.
MISS THOMPSON OVERSAW THE STATE
STREET DESIGN AND ALTHOUGH THAT
PROJECT IN AND OF ITSELF YOU
KNOW IT HAS SO MANY FACTORS TO
IT AND IT SHOWS THAT AS
DIRECTOR OF D.A. THAT SHE'S
REALLY COMMITTED TO OUR PEOPLE
FRIENDLY STREETS INITIATIVES
KEEPING SO KEEPING DOWNTOWN
STREETS SAFE AND COMFORTABLE,
MAINTAINING EQUITABLE ACCESS
FOR ALL PEOPLE AND CREATING AN
INCLUSIVE COMMUNITY.
THOSE ARE VALUES THAT AS
SOMEBODY WHO KNOWS HER
PERSONALLY I CAN ATTEST TO BUT
WHO HAS SEEN HER WORK
PROFESSIONALLY I THINK WE'VE
ALL BENEFITED AS A COMMUNITY.
SO I'M REALLY THRILLED THAT
SHE'S WILLING TO STEP UP AND
TAKE THIS JOB AND I THINK THAT
OUR DENHA AND OUR TEAM SHE'S
BUILT THERE IS IS STRONG UNDER
HER LEADERSHIP AND I'M JUST
THRILLED TO SEE HER PROMOTED TO
THAT POSITION PERMANENTLY.
THANK YOU.
KOTSENBURG DENHA THANK YOU.
RATHER THAN REPEATING SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT
MY COLLEAGUE
SAID, I'LL JUST NOTE THAT YOU
KNOW THIS TWICE IN MY TIME
UNCANCEL DIRECTOR THOMPSON HAS
BEEN LEADING TDA AND AN INTERIM
BASIS AND BOTH OF THOSE TIMES I
YOU KNOW, I HEARD FROM DOWNTOWN
BUSINESSES, FROM DENHA BOARD
MEMBERS, FROM MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT JUST HOW WELL
SUITED SHE WAS FOR THIS ROLE
AND AND I THINK SHE'S DONE A
REALLY EXCEPTIONAL JOB.
HER LEADERSHIP IS QUITE CLEAR.
SHE'S A CHAMPION OF OUR
DOWNTOWN IN A VAN ARBOR AND SO
I'M JUST GRATEFUL TO SEE THAT
WE'RE TAKING THAT INTERIM AWAY
FROM THIS AND MAKING HER
PERMANENT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF THE D.A. I THINK IT WILL
CONTINUE TO BE A REALLY STRONG
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CITY AND
AND I JUST LOOK FORWARD TO HER
CONTINUED LEADERSHIP THERE.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE'S I JUST
WANTED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT WE
HAD A PUBLIC COMMENTARY HERE
WHO WENT TO SPEAK TO A SERIOUS
ISSUE PERTAINING TO THE DDA AND
WHILE I APPRECIATE THAT THE
MAYOR SAID THAT I WANTED TO
SPEAK TO, I THINK THAT'S A
CONVERSATION BETTER LEFT TO IT
TO A DIFFERENT DISCUSSION FOR
NOW.
I JUST WANTED TO ALSO REITERATE
HOW HOW IMPRESSED I'VE BEEN
WITH MISS THOMPSON.
I'VE ALSO HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
TO WORK WITH HER FOR A LONG
PERIOD OF TIME BACK TO WHEN I
WAS RUNNING TO GET DOWNTOWN
PROGRAM BACK IN 2004 THROUGH
2007.
SO SHE'S JUST BEEN A STEADY
PART OF THE DOWNTOWN ALWAYS
ALWAYS BEEN IMPRESSED BY HER
WORK IN THE ORGANIZATION AND
PARTICULARLY IN HER ROLE WITH
THE DENHA I'M SO VERY GLAD TO
SEE HER TAKING OVER AND LEADING
THIS OFFICIALLY NOW I THINK
IT'S A GOOD GOOD STEP FORWARD
AND I KNOW SHE HAS A LOT
OF VISION FOR FOR OUR DOWNTOWN
COUNCIL WORK I WAS ON AND SONG
THANK YOU.
I'M ALSO REALLY EXCITED THAT
SHE'S GOING TO BE PERMANENTLY
OFFERED THIS POSITION.
I WANT TO SAY THAT SHE REALLY
IS A CHAMPION WHEN IT COMES TO
ACCESSIBILITY AND DISABILITY
ISSUES AND WHEN WE HAVE THE
MAIN STREET CLOSURES WE WORK
TOGETHER AND SHE IMMEDIATELY
DID AN ANALYSIS ON WHERE THE
LOCATION OF ACCESSIBLE PARKING
SPOTS WERE IN RELATION TO THE
STREET CLOSURES AND SHE MADE
SURE THERE WERE PATHWAYS FOR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES TO GET
FROM THEIR CARS OR WHATEVER
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION WAS
BEING USED INTO THE STREETS
THAT WERE CLOSED AND SHE
ACTUALLY ADDED MORE ACCESSIBLE
PARKING SPACES DURING AN
ANALYSIS.
SO I STRONGLY SUPPORT THIS AND
I THINK SHE'S GREAT ON I'D LIKE
TO POINT OUT HOW ESSENTIAL MISS
THOMPSON'S WORK HAS BEEN IN
SUPPORT OF OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WORK.
SO WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THESE
PROJECTS COMING FORWARD ON
PAPER HERE AT THIS TABLE AND
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT FINANCING
THE DENHA CONTRIBUTES TO THAT
FINANCING AND CONTRIBUTES TO
THE INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDED TO
COMPLETE THOSE PROJECTS SO WHEN
WE HEAR ABOUT, YOU KNOW, HOW
HOW CAN THE CITY SUPPORT MORE
PEOPLE AND WILL WE HAVE ENOUGH
SEWER LINES OR YOU KNOW, HOW
WILL WE HAVE ENERGY TO DO IT?
THE DDA HELPS HELPS WITH THAT
FUNDS THAT PLANS FOR THAT I
ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT HOW
THERE HAVE BEEN PROJECTS ON
REDUCING PEDESTRIAN ACCIDENTS
DOWN ON THITH.
I MEAN IT WAS REMARKABLE.
I THINK WE REDUCED IT BY 90
PERCENT WHEN WE SPLIT IN THE
CAPITAL SECTION RIGHT ACROSS
FROM COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL
WHERE THERE WERE A LOT
OF PEDESTRIAN ACCIDENTS.
I MEAN THERE'S THERE ARE OTHER
SUCCESSES UNDER MR THOMSON'S
LEADERSHIP AND I'D LIKE TO SEE
THAT GO FORWARD ESPECIALLY AS
WE LOOK AT HOW WE CAN
POTENTIALLY CREATE PEDESTRIAN
MALLS DOWNTOWN SO THAT WE CAN
HAVE A MORE VIBRANT, WALKABLE,
ACCESSIBLE, SAFE DOWNTOWN
THAT'S WELCOMING COMMITTEE
MEMBERS TO VISITORS TO FUTURE
BUSINESSES, SMALL BUSINESSES SO
I'D LIKE TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT AND I THANK HER FOR TAKING
US ON FOR THE DISCUSSION.
OH WELL YOU ALL SAID MISS
THOMPSON KNOWS OUR DOWNTOWN.
SHE KNOWS OUR COMMUNITY AND OUR
COMMUNITY KNOWS HER AND YOU'D
HAVE TO LOOK FAR AND WIDE TO
FIND SOMEONE WHO HAS A REAL
BEEF WITH HER.
SHE HAS BEEN HERE FOR FOR MANY
YEARS AND HAS DONE AN
OUTSTANDING JOB REPRESENTING
MAIN STREET, THE DOWNTOWN
GENERALLY AND SHE IS GOING TO I
BELIEVE SERVE THE DENHA AND THE
DOWNTOWN IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AS A WHOLE WITH WITH
HONOR, DISTINCTION, ENERGY AND
GOOD CHEER.
I'M DELIGHTED THAT THIS IS
MOVING FORWARD FOR THE
DISCUSSION FAVRE POSED.
IT IS APPROVED RESOLUTION TO
RECOGNIZE THE CITY OF LIPNER,
UKRAINE AS A SISTER CITY THE
CITY THAT HARBOR MOVI COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DENHA SECONDED BY
COUNCILOR DISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC TWO.
I AM DELIGHTED THAT THIS IS
GOING TO BE MOVING FORWARD FOR
COUNCIL'S CONSIDERATION.
IT COMES TO US OF COURSE THE AT
THE REQUEST AND INITIATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN
CONNECTION WITH WITH ITS OGOLA
SISTER CITY PROGRAM HOPE WITH
THE WITH THE INTENDED EFFORT TO
CREATE AND EMPHASIZE TIES
OF COMMUNITY AND ENGAGEMENT AND
EDUCATION AND SUPPORT BETWEEN
THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY ANN
ARBOR AND THE PEOPLE OF LIVNY,
THE PEOPLE LIVNI IS A CITY IN
IN UKRAINE WITH APPROXIMATELY
FORTY FIVE THOUSAND PEOPLE AS
WIKIPEDIA TELLS THAT IT WAS A
IT WAS ALLEGEDLY FOUNDED IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY EIGHT BUT THE
FIRST WRITTEN RECORD IS A
LITTLE MORE RECENT IN ELEVEN
SEVEN AND WE JUST CELEBRATED
OUR BICENTENNIAL SO IT'S A
LITTLE BIT OF A DIFFERENT FIND
IN ANY EVENT, ANN HAS A NUMBER
OF SISTER CITIES THEY EACH
OF THEM HAVE THEIR OWN CADENCE
TO THEM.
SOME OF THEM ARE EMPHASIZED AND
AND PROPELLED BY ACTIVE
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS AND I
AM HOPEFUL THAT ONE CAN DEVELOP
IN THIS CONTEXT AS WELL IN THIS
CONTEXT TO WORKING WITH USAID
AT THE INITIATIVE OF AMBASSADOR
AND MICHIGANDER BRIDGET BRINK.
I KNOW THAT THE CITY THAT ANN
ARBOR IS GOING TO BE ENGAGING
WITH THE CITY OF LIBERTY TO TO
HELP THEM APPRECIATE AND HAVE
SOME VISIBILITY ON HOW IT IS
THAT WE DO THINGS AT THE
MUNICIPAL LEVEL IN HOPES THAT
THAT WOULD PROVE PROVE USEFUL
TO THEM.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR CULTURAL
EXCHANGE AND WITH AN EMPHASIS
ON COMMON UNDERSTANDING AND AND
COMMON CELEBRATION OF PEACE FOR
THE DISCUSSION FAVOR OPPOSED.
IT IS APPROVED
DOWN ONE
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SUMMARY
PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE TWENTY
THREE THIRTY SEVEN AND AUDIENCE
TO AMEND SECTION FIVE ONE FIVE
FIVE THAT ONE SIX AND FIVE
THREE SEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE SEA EVENT
ARE REMOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
QUINNELL SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION OF D1 IN
FAVOR PAUSED PROVED DSU
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SUMMARY
PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE TWO
THREE THREE EIGHT ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE THAT ONE
SIXTH OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE
UNIFIED BUILDING CODE TITLE
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE SEA
OF ANN ARBOR PERSONAL SCALE X
MOVI COUNCILOR FOR DENHA
SECURITY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OPPOSED IT
IS APPROVED TO HAVE THE
PLEASURE TODAY OF A CLOSED
SESSION MISCALL NO THANK YOU
MAN.
WE HAD BEFORE THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS.
I HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK'S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCILOR SECOND BY
PERKASIE EDWYN DISCUSSION
OF THE CLERK'S REPORT OR FAVOR
POSED THE CLERK'S REPORT IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT, OVERFLOW MAY HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILOR
COUNCILOR WATSON DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED